THOSE WHO DO NOT REMEMBER THEE PAST ARE CONDEMNED TO REPEAT IT

An Introduction to thee Temple ov Psychick Youth.

Thee Temple strives to end personal laziness and engender
discipline. To focus thee Will on one's true desires, in thee belief,
gathered from experience that this maximizes and makes happen all
those things that one wants in every area ov life. Explore daily your
deepest desires, fantasies and motives, gradually focussing on what
you would like to happen in a perfect world, a perfect situation,
taking away all restrictions and practical considerations, what you'd
REALLY want. Then decide to try and DO it. Thee mere visualization ov
that true goal begins thee process that makes it happen. Clean out
thee trappings and debris ov compromise, ov what you've been told is
REASONABLE for a person in your circumstances. Be clear in admitting
your real desires. Discard all irrelevancies. Ask yourself who you
want as friends, if you need or want to work, what you want to eat.
Check and re-check everything deeper and deeper, more and more
precisely to get closer and ultimately integrate with your REAL
Self. Once you are focussed on your self internally, thee external
aspects ov your life will fall into place. They have to. Sceptics will
say they simply don't believe this Psychick process works, but it
does. It is thee Key to thee Temple.

INTRODUCTION We attempt to commune with spirits, to be friends with
thee Human Spirit. We care for thee infinite significance ov thee
individual spirit and personal moral responsibility and its
development through experience. We believe in thee total significance
ov thee individual discovered though familiarity with thee deepest
instincts and explorations ov destiny outside thee traps ov time. We
intend to engender moral freedom, spiritual freedom, sexual freedom,
and personal independence, to insist upon personal choose in all
things. We accept responsibility. Gladly and with excitement and
deliberate ignorance ov thee outcoum. We revel in mystery and
surprise. We bury our selves in challenge and dreams. We embrace all
possibilities and impossibilities with joy and excitement. We accept
thee true nature ov life, thee way thee world is. Flexible and
shifting, in flux every moment, shaped by parallel levels that accept
contradiction and inconsistency as inviolate qualities that generate
mystery and mastery. We direct ourselves wherever we chose to go with
joy and abandon. A New Era ov thee Magickal interpretation ov thee
World and existing in it is couming. An interpretation in terms ov
Will and Imagination fueled by contact with intuition and instinct.

RESPONSIBILITY

Do you want to be part ov a world ov sleeping people? Do you want to
imbibe thee drug ov thee commonplace? Will you be forever addicted to
self-restriction?

Established orthodoxies and dogmas, conditioned interpretations ov
living, regard thee material world as reality whilst pretending to
deal with thee spirit or existence. They conceive and propagate
evolution and thinking as purely physical, their control ov our lives
and visions as sacrosanct.  Religion has privately altered to work
from a position that accept itself as totally discredited by
science. All establishment modes ov control and affiliation, both
religious and political, rely upon and revolve around unquestioning
faith and dogma, unquestioning acceptance ov their inalienable right
to assume professional responsibility for our actions upon their
shoulders. We are told we are weak, incapable ov grasping scale,
afraid ov ourselves and desperate to push responsibility for all
events in our lifes onto them. We are insistency trained to accept our
corporeal existence as hopeless in itself, to becoum subservient to
thee greater good. We are perpetually conditioned, encouraged, and
blackmailed into self-restriction into narrower and narrower
perceptions ov ourselves, our own importance, our own potential and
our own experience. We are trained to ignore thee evidence ov our
senses and experience and to feel guilt when we glimpse sense derived
visions ov ourselves as free spirits.

Thee voluntary relinquishing ov responsibility for our lives and
actions is one ov thee greatest enemies ov our time.

Our enemies are flat. Our enemies are three-dimensional. Our enemies
are continuity and coherence. Our enemies are restriction and
confinement. Our enemies are guilt and fear. Our enemies are
material. Our enemies are direction and fact. Our enemies are Because.

We are not seeking followers, we are seeking collaborators,
Individuals for a visionary Psychick alliance.

Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth 23 June 82 Era Maximus 003Adeptus

FOCUSING THEE WILL
 What we suggest next is NOT instruction. It is method. A method which
can be used by anyone, alone or with friends, regardless ov any
material or social circumstances. A method to be used by thee
individual to break through to their deeper consciousness, where
fantasies ambitions and real wishes reside, thee place where all
dreams meet. People can most readily identify and relate to dreams
that are sexual, and that is thee primary reason for our choice ov sex
as a vehicle for this method to begin with.  Our interest is therefore
PRACTICAL. In our experience, although they might deny it, most people
never ask themselves what they really want, or simply say they don't
know. But it is only once a person has learned to identify their true
desires in an imaginary perfect world, where guilt and retribution are
suspended, that they can hope to reach them.


SEX - ov all thee things that people do, at home and in private,
usually with close friends, sex alone is subject to extraordinary
interference and control from outside forces. This is no
accident. They recognize its power.  Even if only for a few moments,
Individuals can release a power and energy from within that renders
any system ov society, or regime, meaningless. It is a liberator. Even
an individual in solitary confinement can indulge in it and in their
fantasies travel into any situation and possibility unfettered, and,
at thee moment o orgasm itself, be both blissfully vulnerable and
undeniably free, elsewhere, filled with energy. Accordingly from thee
moment ov birth pressure is exerted upon everyone to limit their
release and enjoyment ov this power. To limit and restrict thee
immense potential all ov us were born with, into narrow and
non-threatening forms ov behavior, sexual and otherwise. Ov course
thee nature ov this pressure varies by place and era. When specific
laws becoum unenforceable for a time, more subtle methods are used;
social attitudes, anxiety, guilt, fear ov ridicule and failure are all
exploited, and diseases that attack only those who indulge in specific
sexual activities are introduced. Most give in to this pressure in one
way or another, permanently crippling their individual growth. We
believe that it is essential, if we are to survive and progress, that
we first recognize, accept and ultimately reach our true sexual
desires. This not only satisfies thee body and consolidates thee
spirit but acts as an example for all our goals in every area ov life,
and attacks at thee root ov control. Control begins with sexuality, so
it seems crucial to begin at this universally applicable point and
develop our awareness from there. In our culture people have
internalized alienating stereotypes which dictate their sexual and
social interactions. This makes men agreeable to orders ov authority
figures and keeps women in line with accepted notions ov propriety and
authority and binds up their sexual desire so that they will accept a
generally subordinate role to men. Thee latter is propagated by those
who are empowered by thee patriarchal lineage which has been handed
down thru thee ages, whose fear ov thee unknown, - in this case women
and feminine characteristics, has been countered by a bulwark ov dogma
which aims at controlling and/or degrading all those forces which they
see as a threat to their reign. By studying thee oppression ov women
through thee ages we can see in a nutshell thee nature, methods and
manifestations ov oppressions it is used in any society in any age
against those who are pro-life and expanding. But on a broad scale
encompassing both sexes thee repression ov sexual instincts functions
to make people submissive and inclined to irrational behavior and thus
paralyzes their rebellious potential. On a deeply personal level where
we enter thee domain ov such energies which might be called
'magickal', thee effect ov such conditioning is no less
significant. Psychic energy and sexual energy are different names for
thee same force: by ridding ourselves ov restrictions and thee forms
ov control which have been imposed on us we can coum into our own on
more planes than one. Most initiates ov thee Temple believe there is a
power and effect released by an orgasm, focussed through Will, that
enhances not only thee chances ov Self-fulfillment and contentment but
also thee achievement ov creative goals: that thee strength ov this
process forces thee hand ov chance and brings closer thee object ov
your desire.

RITUAL - Throughout history man has used ritual to achieve spiritual
results from simple physical actions. Recently its use has been
limited to established religious dogmas, and since many if not all ov
these have fallen into disrepute or have coum to be seen as
irrelevant, so too has thee use ov ritual, but its use is far older
and far more universal than any organized church. Any ritual is a way
on concentrating and focussing those taking part on a particular aim
or idea. It is essential only that thee techniques employed have
meaning and vitality for thee participants.  Seen without this belief,
as many recorded rituals ov thee past are now, thee process can seem
simply ridiculous, and thee mechanical repetition ov them certainly
would be. Initiates ov thee Temple ov Psychick Youth have developed
personal methods or rituals, not only to strengthen and refine their
inner objectives, both sexual and practical, but also to provide a
fertile basis for those objectives to grow and becoum real. Although
we have no vested interest in others following this example, or
contacting thee Temple, it is possible that some people may wish to do
so. Below are instructions on how to do this. Many people feel
unwilling or unable to put our suggestions into practice, due to thee
effectiveness ov social conditioning. Thee Temple will only draw
initiates from those who can demonstrate in thee manner indicated
their resistance to this conditioning, and their commitment to thee
ideas ov thee Temple.

THEE SIGIL OV 3 LIQUIDS

This ritual should be performed alone, on thee 23rd ov thee month,
beginning at 23.00 hours, in a place where you will have no
interruptions or distractions. Within thee limits ov what is
practical, you should arrange thee environment and atmosphere to be as
conducive as possible to thee execution ov this Sigil for yourself. If
at all possible a candle(s) should be thee only source ov light. This
Sigil must be performed naked.  One ov thee aims ov thee ritual is to
concentrate your attention and energy on your most intense sexual
fantasy. To do this you must first decide what it is and write it down
on a piece ov paper. It should be what you think would generate in you
thee maximum possible excitement, pleasure and fulfillment, regardless
ov thee identity, sex or age ov those who take part with you, alive
and guiltless. It is essential to be completely honest with yourself,
and not write something because you think it might satisfy other
people - remember thee purpose ov thee Sigil is to really make these
things happen. Once you have written thee fantasy on thee piece ov
paper, you have to make thee paper special. To do this it must be
touched by thee three liquids ov thee body. That is, spit, blood, and
OV, which is thee Temple name for thee fluids obtained by masturbation
- semen from thee male and lubrication from thee female. For example,
first let a few drops ov spit fall onto thee page, next a few drops ov
blood. You must use some kind ov sharp and clean instrument to do
this. Remember only a small quantity is required and you should use
your common sense in terms ov thee method employed and ov hygiene both
before and afterwards. Lastly, and in any way that is most pleasurable
to you, bring yourself to orgasm and allow thee OV to touch thee
paper. While you are doing this concentrate not only on thee inscribed
fantasy, but also on thee idea ov thee Temple and that fact that doing
this sigil is inevitably bringing you closer to what you really want.
You must then attach a lock ov hair from your head and also some ov
your pubic hair to thee paper. Remember these 2 hair types and 3
liquids may be incorporated on thee Sigil Paper in any manner that
feels appropriate to thee thoughts thereon described. Thee basic
actions outlined above should not be seen as a limitation. Leave thee
Sigil Paper overnight to dry in a safe place. On thee next day send it
to thee Temple. You do not have to attach your name to thee Sigil
Paper if you don't want to. All submission to thee Temple will remain
at all times absolutely confidential, and will be stored in a locked
vault. All applicants who complete this satisfactorily will receive
personal encouragement, suggestions and direction for thee subsequent
months ritual. Completion ov 23 such monthly rituals qualifies one as
a full initiate ov thee Temple. NOTE - if you decide to do this Sigil,
thee responsibility rests entirely with you. You will gain from it,
not thee Temple. Thee Temple can not accept any claims against it,
arising from thee consequences ov thee Sigil or any related
matters. Thee Sigil can only be recommended to those who have reached
thee legal age ov consent in thee country in which they live.

TELEVISION In modern society most people are not able to tolerate
concentrated religious thought. This is hardly surprising. Most
religious and political groups ov thee last two centuries have
stressed, among other things, thee superiority ov their leaders and
thee inferiority ov thee individual. By now thee absurdity ov this
thinking has becoum apparent to most people, and a general resistance
to any form ov religious dogma has developed. There are a number ov
groups and cult religions who are repeating thee old formulas ov
adoration ov their leaders and thee relinquishing ov thee cult's
followers ov any responsibility for their own lives, but these are in
thee minority. By and large people have lost faith in any spiritual
teaching whatsoever, and have nothing with which to replace it. If we
are to be able to suggest even guidelines in this area, it most be
done without dogma and in ways that people will understand.  Pleasure
has becoum something which people do not seek after themselves, but
have presented to them in simulated forms through diverse mediae, thus
building up a frustrating and paradoxical situation where an
inherently active form ov expression has becoum a passive pastime and
thee results: expression becoums depression.

People are constantly being titillated through advertisements and
other forms ov propaganda by a subtle use ov subliminal seduction and
because ov thee one-sided nature ov thee affair thee out coum is
inevitably frustration. When pleasures course is inhibited it has thee
characteristic ov turning into unpleasure. When in spite ov continual
high excitation a person is not able to experience final gratification
a fear eventually develops, not only ov thee final gratification but
also ov thee excitation which precedes it. This will effectively
divorce thee individual from his or her true feelings and instincts.

A long exposure to Televisualized Realty will have thee effect ov
underlining peoples notions about their own inadequacy and on an
unconscious level they will have to deal with second-hand traumas and
complexes, a task made all thee more difficult for thee fact that
although thee pseudo-experiences achieve their relevance by being
linked up with thee individuals own experiences, that link is mostly
superficial and difficult to trace. Television has not yet been
recognized as man's latest sensory apparatus.

Thee manipulation and thee use made ov thee Sexual Instinct through
visual media, such as Television and films has turned a large portion
ov people into unknowing fetishists: they are investing sexual energy
in images and objects without knowing it and are thus unable to
reclaim and make use ov it, - as thee magickal use ov a fetish
dictates. An essentially magickal act has becoum vampiritic and
one-sided. This process breeds a host ov 'Scopophiliacs', people who
obtain simulated sexual gratification through thee process ov
watching, where thee illusion ov active doing is obtained by turning
an other person into an object which is subjected to a controlling
gaze. Scopophilia is by definition one ov thee component instincts ov
sexuality which exists as drives independently ov thee erotogenic
zones. Indulging in scopophiliac activity, and people nowadays hardly
seem to have any other choice, can in thee long run result in an
unconscious acceptance ov thee separation between mind and body,
sexuality being denied its natural course and thee fragmented world
view which keeps people from drawing thee right conclusions and
seeking active release from their circumstances is reinforced. Over
thee last thirty years TV has been thee greatest single factor in thee
control ov thee attitudes ov thee people. Even if it was
unintentional, which seems unlikely, thee prevailing view ov thee
world as seen by thee writers, producers and controllers ov TV
companies has becoum thee accepted 'norm', to which thee viewer
inevitably compares himself. Ov course thee world presented on TV
bears little or no resemblance to reality, and as a consequence thee
viewer is left, not only with a feeling ov failure, but also ov
boredom with this 'perfect' world on thee screen. Even in thee area ov
news and documentary those interests which shape and control TV
everywhere assume that 'the public' cannot cope with thee whole
truth. It is our intention to revers this trend.

We have no desire to ape or emulate thee slick perfection and sterile
technical quality ov traditional professional television, perfect
focus is not perfect content. We deal in implications, exactness ov
flow and image from a subliminal psychick point ov view. It is only by
doing this that one can hope to show life as it really is. All media
systems devised by man enshrine his own limitations ov development and
fulfillment, his inner conflicts, his private fears ov mortality, yet
all media, including TV are nothing but thee decisions ov
men. Psychick TV will be activist, a positive statement ov faith in
thee capacity ov man. To cause things hidden in thee dark to appear
and to take thee dark away from them.

Psychick TV is not intended to be a replacement for conventional
programming, but rather thee first step towards a de-programming,
without regard for thee preoccupations ov commercial TV, redundant
assumptions about entertainment and value. At Psychic TV we accept and
exploit thee way TV is used by our generation, as raw material to be
used and manipulated by thee viewer. Dense enough to be interesting
over and over yet without punchlines or obvious focal points to becoum
familiar and bored with.

Thee Transmissions we are now producing are intended to be viewed at
night, between thee hours ov midnight and six am. We will not be
giving any advance indication ov thee specific content ov thee
Transmissions - rarely are people aware in advance ov any momentous
occurrence in their lives - but everything in thee recordings will
reflect thee way thee world really is. If they seem to be emphasizing
those aspects ov life normally suppressed or censored as subversive,
contentious, disturbing or too sexual, it is because that suppression
is a deliberate attempt to limit thee knowledge ov thee individual. It
is our belief that truth and information about anything and everything
must be made available in every way possible, if human history is to
survive, progress or have any meaning whatsoever.

TEXTS I & II

I To say in day-to-day life that something is 'obvious' means, more
often than not, that one concedes a note ov truth in exchange for a
tolerance ov thee usual hypocrisy and conditioning. You can, for
example, make your opposite ADMIT as being obvious that there is no
such thing as a theory that is absolutely true; that will not stop
them in any way from continuing to brandish their 'Truths' as before.

Their momentary concession passes by a sordid business in which they
buy their future peace ov mind. A life without questions.

Hence, there is no higher aim than thee OBVIOUS. It is to approach
thee closest to a Truth which we know to be inaccessible but whose
gleam we can see.

Thee Obvious is a protection. Not only does it make people run away,
but it also deceives by its rapid commonness, and by thee fact that in
Flat people's minds, whatever is simple cannot be serious.

II It would be an illusion to think that thee Individual can hide all
thee clues to his Oneness. His task is therefore to see to it that all
thee clues are wrongly interpreted. Thus it is that they may SEEM to
indicate a lack ov individuality and create a feeling ov
disappointment rather than curiosity. This tactic gives us space and
protection in thee traps ov time.

An Individual has many personalities or characters at thee same time
or alternately. (Recent cognitive brain theory supports this.) most
people little by little eliminate thee personalities considered to be
dangerous by their peer group or societal unit and finally keep only
one: thee social personality... one dimensional 'FLAT' people. But
other people, called paradoxically 'Individuals', are always trying to
develop all their personalities, even if there is an internal conflict
between them. So we can clearly see that thee Individualist person
logically must use 'WE' to name himself, whilst thee person who
belongs to thee masses must use thee 'I'. Thee first is
multi-dimensional, thee second is uni-dimensional.

One ov thee Temple functions is to encourage and support thee
development ov multi-dimensional individuals. Hence our use ov 'WE' in
our texts.

Our enemies are Flat.

III Our stress on SELF discipline is important, it links thee internal
methods ov ritual to our approval and suggestion ov other forms ov
physical discipline to compliment thee mental/sexual ones. Hence you
will often find that Initiates ov thee Temple will be engaged in such
outside activities as Marksmanship, Martial Arts, Swimming and so on
as an extension ov thee theory ov maintaining and improving ones Focus
and abilities. Thee point is not thee skill in itself, though we
appreciate thee practical nature, in a society such as ours, ov an
ability to defend oneself and be fit, but thee APPLICATION, thee
discipline itself. So one may be poor in terms ov results, but
excellent in terms ov your genuine application to a skill that
requires thought, co-ordination and a degree ov dedication. A
synthesis ov physical action, thought, reflex and an analysis ov both
yourself and a target (real and metaphorical).

FAITH IS FEAR Thee first lesson from which all other grow is thee
simplest.  We are mortal. We all die. This is not a morbid wallowing
in hopelessness.  It is thee ability to genuinely coum to terms with
our physical transience that liberates us all. Many visionary
philosophical systems include 'The Small Death' in their ideas under
one name or another. We all die. This realization truly assimilated
can be turned to positive use, in that it spurs one into action aware
at all time is limited and no life span is certain. Every second
counts and must count. This realization can also be used
unproductively, crippling an individual man or woman's search for
fulfillment ov all their needs and preventing for all their life a
complete integration ov every aspect ov their character and
thoughts. Thee inevitability ov death can be used by outside forces as
a weapon to create fear. Religions use this weapon more blatantly than
any other suppressive social regulation systems. They use fear ov
death to justify Faith. NOTE: Those who escape thee traps ov Religion
through a first stage cynical knowledge ov thee hypocrisy ov modern
society and thee emasculation ov their individual power to change
anything often seek oblivion from this knowledge, and so they use
various drugs (tobacco, alcohol, tranquilizers and opiates like
heroin) as a substitute for Faith. They want to kill time.  Religion
wants to side-step time. Both are actions based on Fear. Mankind
spends a constant amount ov energy in self-preservation. Thee very
phrase 'self-preservation' implies a threat ov annihilation and is
triggered by fear ov death. So in a very real sense fear ov death is
present behind all normal functioning, it resides permanently in thee
subconscious, moulding our image ov ourselves in relation to an
inevitable, inexorable crisis ov death. But fear ov death could not be
constantly present in our day to day conscious mental functioning,
this would be an intolerable burden, as things are, but to behave
'normally' thee biological organism, thee animal man represses its
knowledge ov death to acquire comfort. As things are, so must they
change. So we are all socially and biologically conditioned to put
away our fear ov death yet in a real paradox we becoum too efficiently
oblivious to this fear in our conscious life. Thee Temple tries to
reconcile all our consciousnesses. To do this embraces thee knowledge
ov our own inevitable death with courage and uses it to justify action
and thee proper use ov time. In actual fact, none ov us know how much
time we have, when we do die it ought to be with Zero Regret. Zero
regret is thee magickal state ov inner balance and calm acceptance ov
thee mortality ov individuals and thee use ov Zero Regret to channel
all future action. Thee prefect state is to be sure that no time is
wasted, no energy repressed and no fear hidden. In old language, we
must experience thee small death ov literally facing ourselves and
thee reality ov a temporary metabolism, a limit on time. Time can be a
tool, a liberator, or an oppressor. When we claim time back for
ourselves we are at last learning to be free and effective. Control
needs time like a junkie needs junk. To escape control we must
re-embrace our given time. Initially thee human being has no apparent
alternative but to succumb to a negative appreciation ov death. To
feel fear. Thee brain is genetically programmed to survival and will
not allow itself to believe that it shall cease to exist. Thus, as we
have already seen, thee subconscious mind will seduce thee intellect
into ignoring logic and fact, a condition bordering upon
hopelessness. It will ignore thee lessons ov experience and
observation in favour ov an inherited image ov existence and thee
affect ov fear will be repressed. He will immediately becoum
vulnerable to a desire for Hope that bypasses confronting his
subconscious knowledge. religion thrives upon this. It requires only
an act ov blind faith in exchange for guaranteed Hope and
salvation. It denies death and avoids thee facts. In short, Religion
turns away from thee truth, thee Temple turns towards it. If you face
yourself, you face death and in this way only can you re-integrate
your entire character and all ov its levels ov consciousness and
perception. This cannot be stressed too much or too often.

So in Religions all practical thought must be swept aside in a flood
ov faith. Answers becoum word, and facts becoum sins. This thing Faith
is thee foundation ov all Religious thought. So powerful, yet fragile
that Faith must be protected. Protected from doubt, protected from
questions, it is seen as a constant that will not even tolerate
thought. It causes, its real essence, death, are so entrenched in
everyone's mind that it has becoum thee basis ov every society, and so
every society has developed a system to protect it. Dogma. Thee
equation, simplified, goes something like this: Dogma negates
thought. Thought is thee enemy ov Faith (therefor thee enemy ov
Society). Individual thought patterns are discouraged in order to
preserve Faith inviolate, to thus preserve Society, to preserve thee
status quo and thee vested interests ov thee keepers ov Faith and
Dogma. It is in this web that Religion meets Politics and they
reinforce each other in a web ov deceit. Those in Power have a
personal interest in channeling individual thought down safe
unthreatening avenues geared to thee production ov materials and
services that are to thee 'benefit' ov society, ov thee 'Greater
Good'. In other words you sacrifice your time and your time is your
most precious commodity. When you take yourself back it becoums
priceless. People are deflected from thee theft ov their Time and
trained to produce and consume instead ov how to be engaged in their
habitat and ideas. Politics organizes, Religion directs. From a child
ov five to an adult is a short step. From a new-born baby to a child
ov five is an appalling distance (Tolstoy). Religion invades thee
child's world. A child without guilt is thus given guilt. A child
without fear is thus given fear. Thee only salvation offered is
through Faith. Faith, it is suggested, ends death. Thee price ov
cheating death through Faith is, ov course, submission. People who are
not satisfied with this situation, people who want proofs, who wish to
develop a system without guilt and fear that absorbs and uses death as
a positive and liberating knowledge are discouraged, ridiculed,
treated with suspicion and often deliberately misrepresented in thee
media. They are after all, a threat to Society to some degree, they
strike at thee core ov thee trick that controls us and so in a real
sense they are dangerous. Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth is dedicated
to thee reacquisition by individuals ov their allotted time. It
encourages, it does not discourage, it stands as an example ov what is
possible. To be involved is to becoum very special.

With thee passage ov history, Society's control over Individuals is so
subtle it becoums imperceptible, perhaps even genetically
inherited. Its very power lies in thee face that even its figureheads
and leaders do not realize its processes. Control is invisible. Time
is invisible. Control is so able to shroud an individual's perception
ov reality in trivia as to becoum a uniform reality in itself. A
reality that cannot ask itself questions. That cannot even formulate a
language capable ov setting questions that might reveal thee truth. In
an age ov collapse and transition we must find a language. A way out
ov thee corner donated to us by history. Thee human brain must
develop, becoum thee next step in evolution. It is simply; develop our
latent neurological power or truly die as a race. It is a war for
survival. Through experiment, through exploration ov these latent
powers, by visionary use ov science and technology, and by thee
integration ov experience, observation and expression we must revere
ourselves. A reality that cannot face itself becoums an
illusion. Cannot be real. We must reject totally thee concept and use
ov Faith, that sham. We must emasculate Religion. Thee 'Universe ov
Magick' is within thee mind ov mankind, thee setting is but an
illusion even to thee thinker. Thee Temple is commited to building a
modern network where people are given back pride in themselves, where
destruction becoums a laughable absurdity to a brain aware ov its
infinite and immeasurable potential. thee Temple is commited to
triggering thee next evolutionary cycle in order to save this flawed
but loveable animal man. Thee Temple is commited to developing a
modern functional and inspiring magickal structure. In engendering at
long last thee completely integrated and effective individual. And
this network ov individuals is in turn inevitably faced with a task ov
action to communicate survival and social evolution to others. We are
thee first truly non-aligned and non-mystical philosophy.

Fear breeds Faith. Faith uses Fear. reject Faith, reject Fear, reject
Religions and reject Dogma. Learn to cherish yourself, appreciate
intuition and instinct, Learn to love your questions. Value your
Time. Use mortality to motivate action and a caring, compassionate and
concentrated life.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Involvement in Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth requires an active
individual, dedicated towards thee establishment ov a functional
system ov magick and a modern pagan philosophy without recourse to
mystification, gods or demons; but recognizing thee implicit powers ov
thee human brain (neuromancy) linked with guiltless sexuality focussed
through Will Structure (Sigils).  Magick empowers thee individual to
embrace and realize their dreams and maximize their natural
potential. It is for those with thee courage to touch themselves. It
integrates all levels ov thought in thee first steps towards final
negation ov control and fear.

OUR AIM IS WAKEFULNESS - OUR ENEMY IS DREAMLESS SLEEP.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WARNING Thee Temple have noticed various assertations and misleading
claims appearing in fanzines and thee press, made by certain
personalities, designed to imply a false interpretation ov our
motives, intentions and internal affairs. BEWARE: any statements you
might read or hear made by people expelled from PsychicTV or Thee
Temple ov Psychick Youth. They will inevitably be coloured by
bitterness and resentment, fueled by thee very character qualities and
inconsistencies that initially led to their expulsion. These people
often feel a need for self-justification and are motivated by concern
with their own self esteem and self-image. Equally beware ov these
people attempt s to integrate themselves and appear friendly. Whilst
thee Temple attempts never to enter into a public discussion ov its
policies and decisions, and indeed tries to allow thee maximum
retaining ov pride and saving ov face by any Individuals expelled,
nevertheless thee Temple has in its files documentation to back up its
own version ov any such actions, should thee need arise. We try to be
fair, we try to leave people self-respect, we try to make it easy for
Them to adjust to being expelled. If our silence and our fairness are
seen a weakness and abused, or exploited to damage us all, then we
will change our passive tactics to those ov protection through active
truth.

Liber B
vel Magi
sub Figura I

00. One is the Magus; twain His forces; four His weapons. These are the Seven Spirits of Unrighteousness; seven vultures of evil. Thus is the art and craft of the Magus but glamour. How shall He destroy Himself?

0. Yet the Magus hath power upon the Mother both directly and through Love. And the Magus is Love, and bindeth together That and This in his conjuration.

1. In the beginning doth the Magus speak Truth, and send forth Illusion and Falsehood to enslave the soul. Yet therein is the Mystery of Redemption.

2. By His Wisdom made He the Worlds; the Word that is God is none other than He.

3. How then shall He end His speech with Silence? For He is Speech.

4. He is the first and the last. How shall He cease to number Himself?

5. By a Magus is this writing made known through the mind of a Magister. The one uttereth clearly, and the other understandeth; yet the Word is falsehood, and the Understanding darkness. And this saying is Of All Truth.

6. Nevertheless it is written; for there be times of darkness, and this as a lamp therein.

7. With the Wand createth He.

8. With the Cup preserveth He.

9. With the Dagger destroyeth He.

10. With the Coin redeemeth He.

11. His weapons fulfil the wheel; and on What Axle that turneth is not known unto Him.

12. From all these actions must He cease before the curse of His Grade is uplifted from Him. Before He attain to That which existeth without Form.

13. And if at this time He be manifested upon earth as a Man, and therefore is this present writing, let this be His method, that the curse of His grade, and the burden of His attainment, be uplifted from Him.

14. Let Him beware of abstinence from action. For the curse of His grade is that He must speak Truth, that the Falsehood thereof may enslave the souls of men. Let him then utter that without Fear, that the Law may be fulfilled. And according to His Original Nature will that law be shapen, so that one may declare gentleness and quietness, being an Hindu; and another fierceness and servility, being a Jew; and yet another ardour and manliness, being an Arab. Yet this matter toucheth the mystery of Incarnation, and is not here to be declared.

15. Now the grade of a Magister teacheth the Mystery of Sorrow, and the grade of a Magus the Mystery of Change, and the grade of Ipsissimus the Mystery of Selflessness, which is called also the Mystery of Pan.

16. Let the Magus then contemplate each in turn, raising it to the ultimate power of Infinity. Wherein Sorrow is Joy, and Change is Stability, and Selflessness is Self. For the interplay of the parts hath no action upon the whole. And this contemplation shall be performed not by simple meditation— how much less then by reason? but by the method which shall have been given unto Him in His Initiation to the Grade.

17. Following which method, it shall be easy for Him to combine that trinity from its elements, and further to combine Sat-Chit-Ananda, and Light, Love, Life, three by three into nine that are one, in which meditation success shall be That which was first adumbrated to Him in the grade of Practicus (which reflecteth Mercury into the lowest world) in Liber XXVII, “Here is Nothing under its three Forms.”

18. And this is the Opening of the Grade of Ipsissimus, and by the Buddhists it is called the trance Nerodha-Samapatti.

19. And woe, woe, woe, yea woe, and again woe, woe, woe unto seven times be His that preacheth not His law to men!

20. And woe also be unto Him that refuseth the curse of the grade of a Magus, and the burden of the Attainment thereof.

21. And in the word CHAOS let the Book be sealed; yea, let the Book be sealed.

``Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.''
``There is no Law beyond Do what thou wilt.''
``The word of the Law is Velhma.''
Velhma--Thelema--means Will.

The Key to this Message is this word-Will. The first obvious meaning of this Law is confirmed by antithesis; ``The word of Sin is Restriction.''

Again: ``Thou hast no right but to do thy will. Do that and no other shall say nay. For pure will, unassuaged of purpose, delivered from the lust of result, is every way perfect.''

Take this carefully; it seems to imply a theory that if every man and every woman did his and her will--the true will--there would be no clashing. ``Every man and every woman is a star,'' and each star moves in an appointed path without interference. There is plenty of room for all; it is only disorder that creates confusion.

From these considerations it should be clear that ``Do what thou wilt'' does not mean ``Do what you like.'' It is the apotheosis of Freedom; but it is also the strictest possible bond.

Do what thou wilt--then do nothing else. Let nothing deflect thee from that austere and holy task. Liberty is absolute to do thy will; but seek to do any other thing whatever, and instantly obstacles must arise. Every act that is not in definite course of that one orbit is erratic, an hindrance. Will must not be two, but one.

Note further that this will is not only to be pure, that is, single, as explained above, but also ``unassuaged of purpose.'' This strange phrase must give us pause. It may mean that any purpose in the will would damp it; clearly the ``lust of result'' is a thing from which it must be delivered.

But the phrase may also be interpreted as if it read ``with purpose unassuaged''--i.e., with tireless energy. The conception is, therefore, of an eternal motion, infinite and unalterable. It is Nirvana, only dynamic instead of static--and this comes to the same thing in the end.

The obvious practical task of the magician is then to discover what his will really is, so that he may do it in this manner, and he can best accomplish this by the practices of Liber Thisarb (see Equinox I(7), p. 105) or such others as may from one time to another be appointed.

Thou must (1) Find out what is thy Will. (2) Do that Will with a) one-pointedness, (b) detachment, (c) peace.

Then, and then only, art thou in harmony with the Movement of Things, thy will part of, and therefore equal to, the Will of God. And since the will is but the dynamic aspect of the self, and since two different selves could not possess identical wills; then, if thy will be God's will, Thou art That.

There is but one other word to explain. Elsewhere it is written-- surely for our great comfort--``Love is the law, love under will.''

This is to be taken as meaning that while Will is the Law, the nature of that Will is Love. But this Love is as it were a by-product of that Will; it does not contradict or supersede that Will; and if apparent contradiction should arise in any crisis, it is the Will that will guide us aright. Lo, while in The Book of the Law is much of Love, there is no word of Sentimentality. Hate itself is almost like Love! ``As brothers fight ye!'' All the manly races of the world understand this. The Love of Liber Legis is always bold, virile, even orgiastic. There is delicacy, but it is the delicacy of strength. Mighty and terrible and glorious as it is, however, it is but the pennon upon the sacred lance of Will, the damascened inscription upon the swords of the Knight-monks of Thelema.

Love is the law, love under will.

Liber III vel Jugorum

Copyright (c) Ordo Templi Orientis

0.

0. Behold the Yoke upon the neck of the Oxen! Is it not thereby that the Field shall be ploughed? The Yoke is heavy, but joineth together them that are separate --- Glory to Nuit and to Hadit, and to Him that hath given us the Symbol of the Rosy Cross!

Glory unto the Lord of the Word Abrahadabra, and Glory unto Him that hath given us the Symbol of the Ankh, and of the Cross within the Circle!

1. Three are the Beasts wherewith thou must plough the Field; the Unicorn, the Horse, and the Ox. And these shalt thou yoke in a triple yoke that is governed by One Whip.

2. Now these Beasts run wildly upon the earths and are not easily obedient to the Man.

3. Nothing shall be said here of Cerberus, the great Beast of Hell that is every one of these and all of these, even as Athanasius hath foreshadowed. For this matter 1 is not of Tiphereth without, but Tiphereth within.

I.

0. The Unicorn is speech. Man, rule thy Speech! How else shalt thou master the Son, and answer the Magician at the right hand gateway of the Crown?

1. Here are practices. Each may last for a week or more.

2. (a) Avoid using some common word, such as "and" or "the" or "but"; use a paraphrase.

(b) Avoid using some letter of the alphabet, such as "t", or "s". or "m"; use a paraphrase.

(c) Avoid using the pronouns and adjectives of the first person; use a paraphrase.

Of thine own ingenium devise others.

2. On each occasion that thou art betrayed into saying that thou art sworn to avoid, cut thyself sharply upon the writs or forearm with a razor; even as thou shouldst beat a disobedient dog. Feareth not the Unicorn the claws and teeth of the Lion?

3. Thine arm then serveth thee both for a warning and for a record. Thou shalt write down thy daily progress in these practices, until thou art perfectly vigilant at all times over the least word that slippeth from thy tongue.

Thus bind thyself, and thou shalt be for ever free.

II.

0. The Horse is Action. Man, rule thine Action. How else shalt thou master the Father, and answer the Fool at the Left Hand Gateway of the Crown?

1. Here are practices. Each may last for a week, or more.
(a) Avoiding lifting the left arm above the waist.
(b) Avoid crossing the legs.
Of thine own ingenium devise others.

2. On each occasion that thou art betrayed into doing that thou art sworn to avoid, cut thyself sharply upon the wrist or forearm with a razor; even as thou shouldst beat a disobedient dog. Feareth not the Horse the teeth of the Camel?

3. Thine arm then serveth thee both for a warning and for a record. Thou shalt write down thy daily progress in these practices, until thou art perfectly vigilant at all times over the least action that slippeth from the least of thy fingers.

Thus bind thyself, and thou shalt be for ever free.

III.

0. The Ox is Thought. Man, rule thy Thought! How else shalt thou master the Holy Spirit, and answer the High Priestess in the Middle Gateway of the Crown?

1. Here are practices. Each may last for a week or more. (a) Avoid thinking of a definite subject and all things connected with it, and let that subject be one which commonly occupies much of thy thought, being frequently stimulated by sense-perceptions or the conversation of others.

(b) By some device, such as the changing of thy ring from one finger to another, create in thyself two personalities, the thoughts of one being within entirely different limits from that of the other, the common ground being the necessities of life.2

Of thine own Ingenium devise others.

2. On each occasion that thou art betrayed into thinking that thou art sworn to avoid, cut thyself sharply upon the wrist or forearm with a razor; even as thou shouldst beat a disobedient dog. Feareth not the Ox the Goad of the Ploughman?

3. Thine arm then serveth thee both for a warning and for a record. Thou shalt write down thy daily progress in these practices, until thou art perfectly vigilant at all times over the least thought that ariseth in thy brain.

Thus bind thyself, and thou shalt be for ever free.

(i.e. the matter of Cereberus).
For instance, let A be a man of strong passions, skilled in the Holy Qabalah, a vegetarian, and a keen "reactionary" politician. Let B be a bloodless and ascetic thinker, occupied with business and family cares, an eater of meat, and a keen progressive politician. Let no thought proper to "A" arise when the ring is on the "B" finger, and vice versa.

PART I

MEDITATION
THE WAY OF ATTAINMENT OF GENIUS OR GODHEAD CONSIDERED AS A DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN BRAIN Issued by order of
the GREAT WHITE
BROTHERHOOD
known as the A.'.A.'.

Witness our Seal,
N.'.'
Praemonstrator-General

PRELIMINARY REMARKS

EXISTENCE, as we know it, is full of sorrow. To mention only one minor point: every man is a condemned criminal, only he does not know the date of his execution. This is unpleasant for every man. Consequently every man does everything possible to postpone the date, and would sacrifice anything that he has if he could reverse the sentence.
Practically all religions and all philosophies have started thus crudely, by promising their adherents some such reward as immortality.

No religion has failed hitherto by not promising enough; the present breaking up of all religions is due to the fact that people have asked to see the securities. Men have even renounced the important material advantages which a well-organized religion may confer upon a State, rather than acquiesce in fraud or falsehood, or even in any system which, if not proved guilty, is at least unable to demonstrate its innocence.

Being more or less bankrupt, the best thing that we can do is to attack the problem afresh without preconceived ideas. Let us begin by doubting every statement. Let us find a way of subjecting every statement to the test of experiment. Is there any truth at all in the claims of various religions? Let us examine the question.

Our original difficulty will be due to the enormous wealth of our material. To enter into a critical examination of all systems would be an unending task; the cloud of witnesses is too great. Now each religion is equally positive; and each demands faith. This we refuse in the absence of positive proof. But we may usefully inquire whether there is not any one thing upon which all religions have agreed: for, if so, it seems possible that it may be worthy of really thorough consideration.

It is certainly not to be found in dogma. Even so simple an idea as that of a supreme and eternal being is denied by a third of the human race. Legends of miracle are perhaps universal, but these, in the absence of demonstrative proof, are repugnant to common sense.

But what of the origin of religions? How is it that unproved assertion has so frequently compelled the assent of all classes of mankind? Is not this a miracle?

There is, however, one form of miracle which certainly happens, the influence of the genius. There is no known analogy in Nature. One cannot even think of a "super-dog" transforming the world of dogs, whereas in the history of mankind this happens with regularity and frequency. Now here are three "super-men," all at loggerheads. What is there in common between Christ, Buddha, and Mohammed? Is there any one point upon which all three are in accord?

No point of doctrine, no point of ethics, no theory of a "hereafter" do they share, and yet in the history of their lives we find one identity amid many diversities.

Buddha was born a Prince, and died a beggar.

Mohammed was born a beggar, and died a Prince.

Christ remained obscure until many years after his death.

Elaborate lives of each have been written by devotees, and there is one thing common to all three -- an omission. We hear nothing of Christ between the ages of twelve and thirty. Mohammed disappeared into a cave. Buddha left his palace, and went for a long while into the desert.

Each of them, perfectly silent up to the time of the disappearance, came back and immediately began to preach a new law.

This is so curious that it leaves us to inquire whether the histories of other great teachers contradict or confirm.

Moses led a quiet life until his slaying of the Egyptian. He then flees into the land of Midian, and we hear nothing of what he did there, yet immediately on his return he turns the whole place upside down. Later on, too, he absents himself on Mount Sinai for a few days, and comes back with the Tables of the Law in his hand.

St. Paul (again), after his adventure on the road to Damascus, goes into the desert of Arabia for many years, and on his return overturns the Roman Empire. Even in the legends of savages we find the same thing universal; somebody who is nobody in particular goes away for a longer or shorter period, and comes back as the "great medicine man"; but nobody ever knows exactly what happened to him.

Making every possible deduction for fable and myth, we get this one coincidence. A nobody goes away, and comes back a somebody. This is not to be explained in any of the ordinary ways.

There is not the smallest ground for the contention that these were from the start exceptional men. Mohammed would hardly have driven a camel until he was thirty-five years old if he had possessed any talent or ambition. St. Paul had much original talent; but he is the least of the five. Nor do they seem to have possessed any of the usual materials of power, such as rank, fortune, or influence.

Moses was rather a big man in Egypt when he left; he came back as a mere stranger.

Christ had not been to China and married the Emperor's daughter.

Mohammed had not been acquiring wealth and drilling soldiers.

Buddha had not been consolidating any religious organizations.

St. Paul had not been intriguing with an ambitious general.

Each came back poor; each came back alone.

What was the nature of their power? What happened to them in their absence?

History will not help us to solve the problem, for history is silent.

We have only the accounts given by the men themselves.

It would be very remarkable should we find that these accounts agree.

Of the great teachers we have mentioned Christ is silent; the other four tell us something; some more, some less.

Buddha goes into details too elaborate to enter upon in this place; but the gist of it is that in one way or another he got hold of the secret force of the World and mastered it.

Of St. Paul's experiences, we have nothing but a casual illusion to his having been "caught up into Heaven, and seen and heard things of which it was not lawful to speak."

Mohammed speaks crudely of his having been "visited by the Angel Gabriel," who communicated things from "God."

Moses says that he "beheld God."

Diverse as these statements are at first sight, all agree in announcing an experience of the class which fifty years ago would have been called supernatural, to-day may be called spiritual, and fifty years hence will have a proper name based on an understanding of the phenomenon which occurred.

Theorists have not been at a loss to explain; but they differ.

The Mohammedan insists that God is, and did really send Gabriel with messages for Mohammed: but all others contradict him. And from the nature of the case proof is impossible.

The lack of proof has been so severely felt by Christianity (and in a much less degree by Islam) that fresh miracles have been manufactured almost daily to support the tottering structure. Modern thought, rejecting these miracles, has adopted theories involving epilepsy and madness. As if organization could spring from disorganization! Even if epilepsy were the cause of these great movements which have caused civilization after civilization to arise from barbarism, it would merely form an argument for cultivating epilepsy.

Of course great men will never conform with the standards of little men, and he whose mission it is to overturn the world can hardly escape the title of revolutionary. The fads of a period always furnish terms of abuse. The fad of Caiaphas was Judaism, and the Pharisees told him that Christ "blasphemed." Pilate was a loyal Roman; to him they accused Christ of "sedition." When the Pope had all power it was necessary to prove an enemy a "heretic." Advancing to-day towards a medical oligarchy, we try to prove that our opponents are "insane," and (in a Puritan country) to attack their "morals." We should then avoid all rhetoric, and try to investigate with perfect freedom from bias the phenomena which occurred to these great leaders of mankind.

There is no difficulty in our assuming that these men themselves did not understand clearly what happened to them. The only one who explains his system thoroughly is Buddha, and Buddha is the only one that is not dogmatic. We may also suppose that the others thought it inadvisable to explain too clearly to their followers; St. Paul evidently took this line.

Our best document will therefore be the system of Buddha;

footnote: We have the documents of Hinduism, and of two Chinese systems. But Hinduism has no single founder. Lao Tze is one of our best examples of a man who went away and had a mysterious experience; perhaps the best of all examples, as his system is the best of all systems. We have full details of his method of training in the Khang Kang King, and elsewhere. But it is so little known that we shall omit consideration of it in this popular account.
but it is so complex that no immediate summary will serve; and in the case of the others, if we have not the accounts of the Masters, we have those of their immediate followers.
The methods advised by all these people have a startling resemblance to one another. They recommend "virtue" (of various kinds), solitude, absence of excitement, moderation in diet, and finally a practice which some call prayer and some call meditation. (The former four may turn out on examination to be merely conditions favourable to the last.)

On investigating what is meant by these two things, we find that they are only one. For what is the state of either prayer or meditation? It is the restraining of the mind to a single act, state, or thought. If we sit down quietly and investigate the contents of our minds, we shall find that even at the best of times the principal characteristics are wandering and distraction. Any one who has had anything to do with children and untrained minds generally knows that fixity of attention is never present, even when there is a large amount of intelligence and good will.

If then we, with our well-trained minds, determine to control this wandering thought, we shall find that we are fairly well able to keep the thoughts running in a narrow channel, each thought linked to the last in a perfectly rational manner; but if we attempt to stop this current we shall find that, so far from succeeding, we shall merely bread down the banks of the channel. The mind will overflow, and instead of a chain of thought we shall have a chaos of confused images.

This mental activity is so great, and seems so natural, that it is hard to understand how any one first got the idea that it was a weakness and a nuisance. Perhaps it was because in the more natural practice of "devotion," people found that their thoughts interfered. In any case calm and self-control are to be preferred to restlessness. Darwin in his study presents a marked contrast with a monkey in a cage.

Generally speaking, the larger and stronger and more highly developed any animal is, the less does it move about, and such movements as it does make are slow and purposeful. Compare the ceaseless activity of bacteria with the reasoned steadiness of the beaver; and except in the few animal communities which are organized, such as bees, the greatest intelligence is shown by those of solitary habits. This is so true of man that psychologists have been obliged to treat of the mental state of crowds as if it were totally different in quality from any state possible to an individual.

It is by freeing the mind from external influences, whether casual or emotional, that it obtains power to see somewhat of the truth of things.

Let us, however, continue our practice. Let us determine to be masters of our minds. We shall then soon find what conditions are favourable.

There will be no need to persuade ourselves at great length that all external influences are likely to be unfavourable. New faces, new scenes will disturb us; even the new habits of life which we undertake for this very purpose of controlling the mind will at first tend to upset it. Still, we must give up our habit of eating too much, and follow the natural rule of only eating when we are hungry, listening to the interior voice which tells us that we have had enough.

The same rule applies to sleep. We have determined to control our minds, and so our time for meditation must take precedence of other hours.

We must fix times for practice, and make our feasts movable. In order to test our progress, for we shall find that (as in all physiological matters) meditation cannot be gauged by the feelings, we shall have a note-book and pencil, and we shall also have a watch. We shall then endeavour to count how often, during the first quarter of an hour, the mind breaks away from the idea upon which it is determined to concentrate. We shall practice this twice daily; and, as we go, experience will teach us which conditions are favourable and which are not. Before we have been doing this for very long we are almost certain to get impatient, and we shall find that we have to practice many other things in order to assist us in our work. New problems will constantly arise which must be faced, and solved.

For instance, we shall most assuredly find that we fidget. We shall discover that no position is comfortable, though we never noticed it before in all our lives!

This difficulty has been solved by a practice called "Asana," which will be described later on.

Memories of the events of the day will bother us; we must arrange our day so that it is absolutely uneventful. Our minds will recall to us our hopes and fears, our loves and hates, our ambitions, our envies, and many other emotions. All these must be cut off. We must have absolutely no interest in life but that of quieting our minds.

This is the object of the usual monastic vow of poverty, chastity, and obedience. If you have no property, you have no care, nothing to be anxious about; with chastity no other person to be anxious about, and to distract your attention; while if you are vowed to obedience the question of what you are to do no longer frets: you simply obey.

There are a great many other obstacles which you will discover as you go on, and it is proposed to deal with these in turn. But let us pass by for the moment to the point where you are nearing success.

In your early struggles you may have found it difficult to conquer sleep; and you may have wandered so far from the object of your meditations without noticing it, that the meditation has really been broken; but much later on, when you feel that you are "getting quite good," you will be shocked to find a complete oblivion of yourself and your surroundings. You will say: "Good heavens! I must have been to sleep!" or else "What on earth was I meditating upon?" or even "What was I doing?" "Where am I?" "Who am I?" or a mere wordless bewilderment may daze you. This may alarm you, and your alarm will not be lessened when you come to full consciousness, and reflect that you have actually forgotten who you are and what you are doing!

This is only one of many adventures that may come to you; but it is one of the most typical. By this time your hours of meditation will fill most of the day, and you will probably be constantly having presentiments that something is about to happen. You may also be terrified with the idea that your brain may be giving way; but you will have learnt the real symptoms of mental fatigue, and you will be careful to avoid them. They must be very carefully distinguished from idleness!

At certain times you will feel as if there were a contest between the will and the mind; at other times you may feel as if they were in harmony; but there is a third state, to be distinguished from the latter feeling. It is the certain sign of near success, the view-halloo. This is when the mind runs naturally towards the object chosen, not as if in obedience to the will of the owner of the mind, but as if directed by nothing at all, or by something impersonal; as if it were falling by its own weight, and not being pushed down.

Almost always, the moment that one becomes conscious of this, it stops; and the dreary old struggle between the cowboy will and the buckjumper mind begins again.

Like every other physiological process, consciousness of it implies disorder or disease.

In analysing the nature of this work of controlling the mind, the student will appreciate without trouble the fact that two things are involved -- the person seeing and the thing seen -- the person knowing and the thing known; and he will come to regard this as the necessary condition of all consciousness. We are too accustomed to assume to be facts things about which we have no real right even to guess. We assume, for example, that the unconscious is the torpid; and yet nothing is more certain than that bodily organs which are functioning well do so in silence. The best sleep is dreamless. Even in the case of games of skill our very best strokes are followed by the thought, "I don't know how I did it;" and we cannot repeat those strokes at will. The moment we begin to think consciously about a stroke we get "nervous," and are lost.

In fact, there are three main classes of stroke; the bad stroke, which we associate, and rightly, with wandering attention; the good stroke which we associate, and rightly, with fixed attention; and the perfect stroke, which we do not understand, but which is really caused by the habit of fixity of attention having become independent of the will, and thus enabled to act freely of its own accord.

This is the same phenomenon referred to above as being a good sign.

Finally something happens whose nature may form the subject of a further discussion later on. For the moment let it suffice to say that this consciousness of the Ego and the non-Ego, the seer and the thing seen, the knower and the thing known, is blotted out.

There is usually an intense light, an intense sound, and a feeling of such overwhelming bliss that the resources of language have been exhausted again and again in the attempt to describe it.

It is an absolute knock-out blow to the mind. It is so vivid and tremendous that those who experience it are in the gravest danger of losing all sense of proportion.

By its light all other events of life are as darkness. Owing to this, people have utterly failed to analyse it or to estimate it. They are accurate enough in saying that, compared with this, all human life is absolutely dross; but they go further, and go wrong. They argue that "since this is that which transcends the terrestrial, it must be celestial." One of the tendencies in their minds has been the hope of a heaven such as their parents and teachers have described, or such as they have themselves pictured; and, without the slightest grounds for saying so, they make the assumption "This is That."

In the Bhagavadgita a vision of this class is naturally attributed to the apparation of Vishnu, who was the local god of the period.

Anna Kingsford, who had dabbled in Hebrew mysticism, and was a feminist, got an almost identical vision; but called the "divine" figure which she saw alternately "Adonai" and "Maria."

Now this woman, though handicapped by a brain that was a mass of putrid pulp, and a complete lack of social status, education, and moral character, did more in the religious world than any other person had done for generations. She, and she alone, made Theosophy possible, and without Theosophy the world-wide interest in similar matters would never have been aroused. This interest is to the Law of Thelema what the preaching of John the Baptist was to Christianity.

We are now in a position to say what happened to Mohammed. Somehow or another his phenomenon happened in his mind. More ignorant than Anna Kingsford, though, fortunately, more moral, he connected it with the story of the "Annunciation," which he had undoubtedly heard in his boyhood, and said "Gabriel appeared to me." But in spite of his ignorance, his total misconception of the truth, the power of the vision was such that he was enabled to persist through the usual persecution, and founded a religion to which even to-day one man in every eight belongs.

The history of Christianity shows precisely the same remarkable fact. Jesus Christ was brought up on the fables of the "Old Testament," and so was compelled to ascribe his experiences to "Jehovah," although his gentle spirit could have had nothing in common with the monster who was always commanding the rape of virgins and the murder of little children, and whose rites were then, and still are, celebrated by human sacrifice.

footnote: The massacres of Jews in Eastern Europe which surprise the ignorant, are almost invariably excited by the disappearance of "Christian" children, stolen, as the parents suppose, for the purposes of "ritual murder." WEH footnote: This unfortunate perpetuation of the "blood-libel" myth was later recanted by Crowley. The blood-libel was visited upon early Christians by the Romans and is visited today upon Thelemites by Christian Fundamentalists.
Similarly the visions of Joan of Arc were entirely Christian; but she, like all the others we have mentioned, found somewhere the force to do great things. Of course, it may be said that there is a fallacy in the argument; it may be true that all these great people "saw God," but it does not follow that every one who "sees God" will do great things.

This is true enough. In fact, the majority of people who claim to have "seen God," and who no doubt did "see God" just as much as those whom we have quoted, did nothing else.

But perhaps their silence is not a sign of their weakness, but of their strength. Perhaps these "great" men are the failures of humanity; perhaps it would be better to say nothing; perhaps only an unbalanced mind would wish to alter anything or believe in the possibility of altering anything; but there are those who think existence even in heaven intolerable so long as there is one single being who does not share that joy. There are some who may wish to travel back from the very threshold of the bridal chamber to assist belated guests.

Such at least was the attitude which Gotama Buddha adopted. Nor shall he be alone.

Again it may be pointed out that the contemplative life is generally opposed to the active life, and it must require an extremely careful balance to prevent the one absorbing the other.

As it will be seen later, the "vision of God," or "Union with God," or "Samadhi," or whatever we may agree to call it, has many kinds and many degrees, although there is an impassable abyss between the least of them and the greatest of all the phenomena of normal consciousness. "To sum up," we assert a secret source of energy which explains the phenomenon of Genius.

footnote: We have dealt in this preliminary sketch only with examples of religious genius. Other kinds are subject to the same remarks, but the limits of our space forbid discussion of these.
We do not believe in any supernatural explanations, but insist that this source may be reached by the following out of definite rules, the degree of success depending upon the capacity of the seeker, and not upon the favour of any Divine Being. We assert that the critical phenomenon which determines success is an occurrence in the brain characterized essentially by the uniting of subject and object. We propose to discuss this phenomenon, analyse its nature, determine accurately the physical, mental and moral conditions which are favourable to it, to ascertain its cause, and thus to produce it in ourselves, so that we may adequately study its effects.
CHAPTER I 
ASANA

THE problem before us may be stated thus simply. A man wishes to control his mind, to be able to think one chosen thought for as long as he will without interruption.

As previously remarked, the first difficulty arises from the body, which keeps on asserting its presence by causing its victim to itch, and in other ways to be distracted. He wants to stretch, scratch, sneeze. This nuisance is so persistent that the Hindus (in their scientific way) devised a special practice for quieting it.

The word Asana means "posture; but, as with all words which have caused debate, its exact meaning has altered, and it is used in several distinct senses by various authors. The greatest authority on "Yoga"

footnote: Yoga is the general name for that form of meditation which aims at the uniting of subject and object, for "yog" is the root from which are derived the Latin word "Jugum" and the English word "Yoke."
is Patanjali. He says, "Asana is that which is firm and pleasant." This may be taken as meaning the result of success in the practice. Again, Sankhya says, "Posture is that which is steady and easy." And again, "any posture which is steady and easy is an Asana; there is no other rule." Any posture will do.
In a sense this is true, because any posture becomes uncomfortable sooner or later. The steadiness and easiness mark a definite attainment, as will be explained later on. Hindu books, such as the "Shiva Sanhita," give countless postures; many, perhaps most of them, impossible for the average adult European. Others insist that the head, neck, and spine should be kept vertical and straight, for reasons connected with the subject of Prana, which will be dealt with in its proper place. The positions illustrated in Liber E (Equinox I and VII) form the best guide.

footnote: Here are four:
1. Sit in a chair; head up, back straight, knees together, hands on knees, eyes closed. ("The God.")

2. Kneel; buttocks resting on the heels, toes turned back, back and head straight, hands on thighs. ("The Dragon.")

3. Stand; hold left ankle with right hand (and alternately practise right ankle in left hand, etc.), free forefinger on lips. ("The Ibis.")

4. Sit; left heel pressing up anus, right foot poised on its toes, the heel covering the phallus; arms stretched out over the knees: head and back straight. ("The Thunderbolt.")

The extreme of Asana is practised by those Yogis who remain in one position without moving, except in the case of absolute necessity, during their whole lives. One should not criticise such persons without a thorough knowledge of the subject. Such knowledge has not yet been published.

However, one may safely assert that since the great men previously mentioned did not do this, it will not be necessary for their followers. Let us then choose a suitable position, and consider what happens. There is a sort of happy medium between rigidity and limpness; the muscles are not to be strained; and yet they are not allowed to be altogether slack. It is difficult to find a good descriptive word. "Braced" is perhaps the best. A sense of physical alertness is desirable. Think of the tiger about to spring, or of the oarsman waiting for the gun. After a little there will be cramp and fatigue. The student must now set his teeth, and go through with it. The minor sensations of itching, etc., will be found to pass away, if they are resolutely neglected, but the cramp and fatigue may be expected to increase until the end of the practice. One may begin with half an hour or an hour. The student must not mind if the process of quitting the Asana involves several minutes of the acutest agony.

WEH footnote: It is important to distinguish between cramp and severe chronic muscle spasm which can tear ligaments. Muscle spasm tends to result from pinching or compressing nerves, and can lead to permanent injury. Also beware of constricted circulation, which produces numbness more than it does pain. Wear loose clothing and avoid pressing on hard objects.
It will require a good deal of determination to persist day after day, for in most cases it will be found that the discomfort and pain, instead of diminishing, tend to increase.

On the other hand, if the student pay no attention, fail to watch the body, an opposite phenomenon may occur. He shifts to ease himself without knowing that he has done so. To avoid this, choose a position which naturally is rather cramped and awkward, and in which slight changes are not sufficient to bring ease. Otherwise, for the first few days, the student may even imagine that he has conquered the position. In fact, in all these practices their apparent simplicity is such that the beginner is likely to wonder what all the fuss is about, perhaps to think that he is specially gifted. Similarly a man who has never touched a golf club will take his umbrella and carelessly hole a putt which would frighten the best putter alive.

In a few days, however, in all cases, the discomforts will begin. As you go on, they will begin earlier in the course of the hour's exercise. The disinclination to practise at all may become almost unconquerable. One must warn the student against imagining that some other position would be easier to master than the one he has selected. Once you begin to change about you are lost.

Perhaps the reward is not so far distant: it will happen one day that the pain is suddenly forgotten, the fact of the presence of the body is forgotten, and one will realize that during the whole of one's previous life the body was always on the borderland of consciousness, and that consciousness a consciousness of pain; and at this moment one will further realize with an indescribable feeling of relief that not only is this position, which has been so painful, the very ideal of physical comfort, but that all other conceivable positions of the body are uncomfortable. This feeling represents success.

There will be no further difficulty in the practice. One will get into one's Asana with almost the same feeling as that with which a tired man gets into a hot bath; and while he is in that position, the body may be trusted to send him no message that might disturb his mind.

Other results of this practice are described by Hindu authors, but they do not concern us at present. Our first obstacle has been removed, and we can continue with the others.

CHAPTER II 
PRANAYAMA AND ITS PARALLEL IN SPEECH, MANTRAYOGA

THE connection between breath and mind will be fully discussed in speaking of the Magick Sword, but it may be useful to premise a few details of a practical character. You may consult various Hindu manuals, and the writing of Kwang Tze, for various notable theories as to method and result.

But in this sceptical system one had better content one's self with statements which are not worth the trouble of doubting.

The ultimate idea of meditation being to still the mind, it may be considered a useful preliminary to still consciousness of all the functions of the body. This has been dealt with in the chapter on Asana. One may, however, mention that some Yogis carry it to the point of trying to stop the beating of the heart. Whether this be desirable or no it would be useless to the beginner, so he will endeavour to make the breathing very slow and very regular. The rules for this practice are given in Liber CCVI.

The best way to time the breathing, once some little skill has been acquired, with a watch to bear witness, is by the use of a mantra. The mantra acts on the thoughts very much as Pranayama does upon the breath. The thought is bound down to a recurring cycle; any intruding thoughts are thrown off by the mantra, just as pieces of putty would be from a fly-wheel; and the swifter the wheel the more difficult would it be for anything to stick.

This is the proper way to practise a mantra. Utter it as loudly and slowly as possible ten times, then not quite so loudly and a very little faster ten times more. Continue this process until there is nothing but a rapid movement of the lips; this movement should be continued with increased velocity and diminishing intensity until the mental muttering completely absorbs the physical. The student is by this time absolutely still, with the mantra racing in his brain; he should, however, continue to speed it up until he reaches his limit, at which he should continue for as long as possible, and then cease the practice by reversing the process above described.

Any sentence may be used as a mantra, and possibly the Hindus are correct in thinking that there is a particular sentence best suited to any particular man. Some men might find the liquid mantras of the Quran slide too easily, so that it would be possible to continue another train of thought without disturbing the mantra; one is supposed while saying the mantra to meditate upon its meaning. This suggests that the student might construct for himself a mantra which should represent the Universe in sound, as the pantacle

footnote: See Part II.
should do in form. Occasionally a mantra may be "given," "i.e.," heard in some unexplained manner during a meditation. One man, for example, used the words: "And strive to see in everything the will of God;" to another, while engaged in killing thoughts, came the words "and push it down," apparently referring to the action of the inhibitory centres which he was using. By keeping on with this he got his "result."
The ideal mantra should be rhythmical, one might even say musical; but there should be sufficient emphasis on some syllable to assist the faculty of attention. The best mantras are of medium length, so far as the beginner is concerned. If the mantra is too long, one is apt to forget it, unless one practises very hard for a great length of time. On the other hand, mantras of a single syllable, such as "Aum,"

footnote: However, in saying a mantra containing the word "Aum," one sometimes forgets the other words, and remains concentrated, repeating the "Aum" at intervals; but this is the result of a practice already begun, not the beginning of a practice.
are rather jerky; the rhythmical idea is lost. Here are a few useful mantras:
1. Aum.

2. Aum Tat Sat Aum. This mantra is purely spondaic.

II.

{illustration: line of music with: Aum Tat Sat Aum :under it}

3. Aum mani padme hum; two trochees between two caesuras.

III.

{illustration: line of music with: Aum Ma-ni Pad-me Hum :under it}

4. Aum shivaya vashi; three trochees. Note that "shi" means rest, the absolute or male aspect of the Deity; "va" is energy, the manifested or female side of the Deity. This Mantra therefore expresses the whole course of the Universe, from Zero through the finite back to Zero.

IV.

{illustration: line of music with: Aum shi-va-ya Va-shi Aum shi-va-ya Vashi :under it}

5. Allah. The syllables of this are accented equally, with a certain pause between them; and are usually combined by fakirs with a rhythmical motion of the body to and fro.

6. Hua allahu alazi lailaha illa Hua.

Here are some longer ones:

7. The famous Gayatri.

Aum! tat savitur varenyam
Bhargo devasya dimahi
Dhiyo yo na pratyodayat.

Scan this as trochaic tetrameters.

8. Qol: Hua Allahu achad; Allahu Assamad; lam yalid walam yulad; walam yakun lahu kufwan achad.

9. This mantra is the holiest of all that are or can be. It is from the Stele of Revealing.

footnote: See Equinox VII.
A ka dua
Tuf ur biu
Bi aa chefu
IX. Dudu ner af an nuteru.

{illustration: two lines of music with: A ka du - a Tuf ur bi - u Bi A'a che - fu Du - du ner af an nu - te -ru :under them}

Such are enough for selection.

footnote: Meanings of mantras:
1 Aum is the sound produced by breathing forcibly from the back of the throat and gradually closing the mouth. The three sounds represent the creative, preservative, and destructive principles. There are many more points about this, enough to fill a volume.

2. O that Existent! O! -- An aspiration after realty, truth.

3. O the Jewel in the Lotus! Amen! -- Refers to Buddha and Harpocrates; but also the symbolism of the Rosy Cross.

4. Gives the cycle of creation. Peace manifesting as Power, Power dissolving in Peace.

5. God. It adds to 66, the sum of the first 11 numbers.

6. He is God, and there is no other God than He.

7. O! let us strictly meditate on the adorable light of that divine Savitri (the interior Sun, etc.). May she enlighten our minds!

8. Say:
He is God alone!
God the Eternal!
He begets not and is not begotten!
Nor is there like unto Him any one!

9. Unity uttermost showed!
I adore the might of Thy breath,
Supreme and terrible God,
Who makest the Gods and Death
To tremble before Thee: --
I, I adore Thee!

There are many other mantras. Sri Sabapaty Swami gives a particular one for each of the Cakkras. But let the student select one mantra and master it thoroughly.

You have not even begun to master a mantra until it continues unbroken through sleep. This is much easier than it sounds.

Some schools advocate practising a mantra with the aid of instrumental music and dancing. Certainly very remarkable effects are obtained in the way of "magic" powers; whether great spiritual results are equally common is a doubtful point. Persons wishing to study them may remember that the Sahara desert is within three days of London; and no doubt the Sidi Aissawa would be glad to accept pupils. This discussion of the parallel science of mantra-yoga has led us far indeed from the subject of Pranayama.

Pranayama is notably useful in quieting the emotions and appetites; and, whether by reason of the mechanical pressure which it asserts, or by the thorough combustion which it assures in the lungs, it seems to be admirable from the standpoint of health. Digestive troubles in particular are very easy to remove in this way. It purifies both the body and the lower functions of the mind,

footnote: Emphatically. Emphatically. Emphatically. It is impossible to combine Pranayama properly performed with emotional thought. It should be resorted to immediately, at all times during life, when calm is threatened.
On the whole, the ambulatory practices are more generally useful to the health than the sedentary; for in this way walking and fresh air are assured. But some of the sedentary practice should be done, and combined with meditation. Of course when actually "racing" to get results, walking is a distraction.

and should be practised certainly never less than one hour daily by the serious student.
Four hours is a better period, a golden mean; sixteen hours is too much for most people.

CHAPTER III 
YAMA

footnote: Yama means literally "control." It is dealt with in detail in Part II, "The Wand."
AND NIYAMA

THE Hindus have place these two attainments in the forefront of their programme. They are the "moral qualities" and "good works" which are supposed to predispose to mental calm.
"Yama" consists of non-killing, truthfulness, non-stealing, continence, and non-receiving of any gift.

In the Buddhist system, "Sila", "Virtue," is similarly enjoined. The qualities are, for the layman, these five: Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not lie. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt drink no intoxicating drink. For the monk many others are added.

The commandments of Moses are familiar to all; they are rather similar; and so are those given by Christ

footnote: Not, however, original. The whole sermon is to be found in the Talmud.
in the "Sermon on the Mount."
Some of these are only the "virtues" of a slave, invented by his master to keep him in order. The real point of the Hindu "Yama" is that breaking any of these would tend to excite the mind.

Subsequent theologians have tried to improve upon the teachings of the Masters, have given a sort of mystical importance to these virtues; they have insisted upon them for their own sake, and turned them into puritanism and formalism. Thus "non-killing," which originally meant "do not excite yourself by stalking tigers," has been interpreted to mean that it is a crime to drink water that has not been strained, lest you should kill the animalcula.

But this constant worry, this fear of killing anything by mischance is, on the whole, worse than a hand-to-hand conflict with a griesly bear. If the barking of a dog disturbs your meditation, it is simplest to shoot the dog, and think no more about it.

A similar difficulty with wives has caused some masters to recommend celibacy. In all these questions common sense must be the guide. No fixed rule can be laid down. The "non-receiving of gifts," for instance, is rather important for a Hindu, who would be thoroughly upset for weeks if any one gave him a coconut: but the average European takes things as they come by the time that he has been put into long trousers.

The only difficult question is that of continence, which is complicated by many considerations, such as that of energy; but everybody's mind is hopelessly muddled on this subject, which some people confuse with erotology, and others with sociology. There will be no clear thinking on this matter until it is understood as being solely a branch of athletics.

We may then dismiss Yama and Niyama with this advice: let the student decide for himself what form of life, what moral code, will least tend to excite his mind; but once he has formulated it, let him stick to it, avoiding opportunism; and let him be very careful to take no credit for what he does or refrains from doing -- it is a purely practical code, of no value in itself.

The cleanliness which assists the surgeon in his work would prevent the engineer from doing his at all.

(Ethical questions are adequately dealt with in "Then Tao" in "Konx Om Pax," and should be there studied. Also see Liber XXX of the A. A. Also in Liber CCXX, the "Book of the Law," it is said: "DO WHAT THOU WILT shall be the whole of the Law."

WEH FOOTNOTE: SIC, should be: "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law."
Remember that for the purpose of this treatise the whole object of Yama and Niyama is to live so that no emotion or passion disturbs the mind.)
CHAPTER IV 
PRATYAHARA

PRATYAHARA is the first process in the mental part of our task. The previous practices, Asana, Pranayama, Yama, and Niyama, are all acts of the body, while mantra is connected with speech: Pratyahara is purely mental.

And what is Pratyahara? This word is used by different authors in different senses. The same word is employed to designate both the practice and the result. It means for our present purpose a process rather strategical than practical; it is introspection, a sort of general examination of the contents of the mind which we wish to control: Asana having been mastered, all immediate exciting causes have been removed, and we are free to think what we are thinking about.

A very similar experience to that of Asana is in store for us. At first we shall very likely flatter ourselves that our minds are pretty calm; this is a defect of observation. Just as the European standing for the first time on the edge of the desert will see nothing there, while his Arab can tell him the family history of each of the fifty persons in view, because he has learnt how to look, so with practice the thoughts will become more numerous and more insistent.

As soon as the body was accurately observed it was found to be terribly restless and painful; now that we observe the mind it is seen to be more restless and painful still. (See diagram opposite.)

A similar curve might be plotted for the real and apparent painfulness of Asana.

Conscious of this fact, we begin to try to control it: "Not quite so many thoughts, please!" "Don't think quite so fast, please!" "No more of that kind of thought, please!" It is only then that we discover that what we thought was a school of playful porpoises is really the convolutions of the sea-serpent. The attempt to repress has the effect of exciting.

When the unsuspecting pupil first approaches his holy but wily Guru, and demands magical powers, that Wise One replies that he will confer them, points out with much caution and secrecy some particular spot on the pupil's body which has never previously attracted his attention, and says: "In order to obtain this magical power which you seek, all that is necessary is to wash seven times in the Ganges during seven days, being particularly careful to avoid thinking of that one spot." Of

{diagram on page 26, nothing else, graph with following text beneath:
BD shows the Control of the Mind, improving slowly at first, afterwards more quickly. It starts from at or near zero, and should reach absolute control at D.

EF shows the Power of Observation of the contents of the mind, improving quickly at first, afterwards more slowly, up to perfection at F. It starts well above zero in the case of most educated men.

The height of the perpendiculars HI indicates the dissatisfaction of the student with his power of control. Increasing at first, it ultimately diminishes to zero.}

course the unhappy youth spends a disgusted week in thinking of little else.
It is positively amazing with what persistence a thought, even a whole train of thoughts, returns again and again to the charge. It becomes a positive nightmare. It is intensely annoying, too, to find that one does not become conscious that one has got on to the forbidden subject until one has gone right through with it. However, one continues day after day investigating thoughts and trying to check them; and sooner or later one proceeds to the next stage, Dharana, the attempt to restrain the mind to a single object.

Before we go on to this, however, we must consider what is meant by success in Pratyahara. This is a very extensive subject, and different authors take widely divergent views. One writer means an analysis so acute that every thought is resolved into a number of elements (see "The Psychology of Hashish," Section V, in Equinox II).

Others take the view that success in the practice is something like the experience which Sir Humphrey Davy had as a result of taking nitrous oxide, in which he exclaimed: "The universe is composed exclusively of ideas."

Others say that it gives Hamlet's feeling: "There's nothing good or bad but thinking makes it so," interpreted as literally as was done by Mrs. Eddy.

However, the main point is to acquire some sort of inhibitory power over the thoughts. Fortunately there is an unfailing method of acquiring this power. It is given in Liber III. If Sections 1 and 2 are practised (if necessary with the assistance of another person to aid your vigilance) you will soon be able to master the final section.

In some people this inhibitory power may flower suddenly in very much the same way as occurred with Asana. Quite without any relaxation of vigilance, the mind will suddenly be stilled. There will be a marvellous feeling of peace and rest, quite different from the lethargic feeling which is produced by over-eating. It is difficult to say whether so definite a result would come to all, or even to most people. The matter is one of no very great importance. If you have acquired the power of checking the rise of thought you may proceed to the next stage.

CHAPTER V 
DHARANA

NOW that we have learnt to observe the mind, so that we know how it works to some extent, and have begun to understand the elements of control, we may try the result of gathering together all the powers of the mind, and attempting to focus them on a single point.

We know that it is fairly easy for the ordinary educated mind to think without much distraction on a subject in which it is much interested. We have the popular phrase, "revolving a thing in the mind"; and as long as the subject is sufficiently complex, as long as thoughts pass freely, there is no great difficulty. So long as a gyroscope is in motion, it remains motionless relatively to its support, and even resists attempts to distract it; when it stops it falls from that position. If the earth ceased to spin round the sun, it would at once fall into the sun.

The moment then that the student takes a simple subject -- or rather a simple object -- and imagines it or visualizes it, he will find that it is not so much his creature as he supposed. Other thoughts will invade the mind, so that the object is altogether forgotten, perhaps for whole minutes at a time; and at other times the object itself will begin to play all sorts of tricks.

Suppose you have chosen a white cross. It will move its bar up and down, elongate the bar, turn the bar oblique, get its arms unequal, turn upside down, grow branches, get a crack around it or a figure upon it, change its shape altogether like an Amoeba, change its size and distance as a whole, change the degree of its illumination, and at the same time change its colour. It will get splotchy and blotchy, grow patterns, rise, fall, twist and turn; clouds will pass over its face. There is no conceivable change of which it is incapable. Not to mention its total disappearance, and replacement by something altogether different!

Any one to whom this experience does not occur need not imagine that he is meditating. It shows merely that he is incapable of concentrating his mind in the very smallest degree. Perhaps a student may go for several days before discovering that he is not meditating. When he does, the obstinacy of the object will infuriate him; and it is only now that his real troubles will begin, only now that Will comes really into play, only now that his manhood is tested. If it were not for the Will-development which he got in the conquest of Asana, he would probably give up. As it is, the mere physical agony which he underwent is the veriest trifle compared with the horrible tedium of Dharana.

For the first week it may seem rather amusing, and you may even imagine you are progressing; but as the practice teaches you what you are doing, you will apparently get worse and worse.

Please understand that in doing this practice you are supposed to be seated in Asana, and to have note-book and pencil by your side, and a watch in front of you. You are not to practise at first for more than ten minutes at a time, so as to avoid risk of overtiring the brain. In fact you will probably find that the whole of your will-power is not equal to keeping to a subject at all for so long as three minutes, or even apparently concentrating on it for so long as three seconds, or three-fifths of one second. By "keeping to it at all" is meant the mere attempt to keep to it. The mind becomes so fatigued, and the object so incredibly loathsome, that it is useless to continue for the time being. In Frater P.'s record we find that after daily practice for six months, meditations of four minutes and less are still being recorded.

The student is supposed to count the number of times that his thought wanders; this he can do on his fingers or on a string of beads.

footnote: This counting can easily become quite mechanical. With the thought that reminds you of a break associate the notion of counting.
The grosser kind of break can be detected by another person. It is accompanied with a flickering of the eyelid, and can be seen by him. With practice he could detect even very small breaks.

If these breaks seem to become more frequent instead of less frequent, the student must not be discourage; this is partially caused by his increased accuracy of observation. In exactly the same way, the introduction of vaccination resulted in an apparent increase in the number of cases of smallpox, the reason being that people began to tell the truth about the disease instead of faking.
Soon, however, the control will improve faster than the observation. When this occurs the improvement will become apparent in the record. Any variation will probably be due to accidental circumstances; for example, one night your may be very tired when you start; another night you may have headache or indigestion. You will do well to avoid practising at such times.

We will suppose, then, that you have reached the stage when your average practice on one subject is about half an hour, and the average number of breaks between ten and twenty. One would suppose that this implied that during the periods between the breaks one was really concentrated, but this is not the case. The mind is flickering, although imperceptibly. However, there may be sufficient real steadiness even at this early stage to cause some very striking phenomena, of which the most marked is one which will possibly make you think that you have gone to sleep. Or, it may seem quite inexplicable, and in any case will disgust you with yourself. You will completely forget who you are, what you are, and what you are doing. A similar phenomenon sometimes happens when one is half awake in the morning, and one cannot think what town one is living in. The similarity of these two things is rather significant. It suggests that what is really happening is that you are waking up from the sleep which men call waking, the sleep whose dreams are life.

There is another way to test one's progress in this practice, and that is by the character of the breaks.

"Breaks" are classed as follows:

Firstly, physical sensations. These should have been overcome by Asana.

Secondly, breaks that seem to be dictated by events immediately preceding the meditation. Their activity becomes tremendous. Only by this practice does one understand how much is really observed by the sense without the mind becoming conscious of it.

Thirdly, there is a class of breaks partaking of the nature of reverie or "day-dreams." These are very insidious -- one may go on for a long time without realizing that one has wandered at all.

Fourthly, we get a very high class of break, which is a sort of aberration of the control itself. You think, "How well I am doing it!" or perhaps that it would be rather a good idea if you were on a desert island, or if you were in a sound-proof house, or if you were sitting by a waterfall. But these are only trifling variations from the vigilance itself.

A fifth class of breaks seems to have no discoverable source in the mind. Such may even take the form of actual hallucination, usually auditory. Of course, such hallucinations are infrequent, and are recognized for what they are; otherwise the student had better see his doctor. The usual kind consists of odd sentences or fragments of sentences, which are heard quite distinctly in a recognizable human voice, not the student's own voice, or that of any one he knows. A similar phenomenon is observed by wireless operators, who call such messages "atmospherics."

There is a further kind of break, which is the desired result itself. It must be dealt with later in detail.

Now there is a real sequence in these classes of breaks. As control improves, the percentage of primaries and secondaries will diminish, even though the total number of breaks in a meditation remain stationary. By the time that you are meditating two or three hours a day, and filing up most of the rest of the day with other practices designed to assist, when nearly every time something or other happens, and there is constantly a feeling of being "on the brink of something pretty big," one may expect to proceed to the next state -- Dhyana.

CHAPTER VI 
DHYANA

THIS word has two quite distinct and mutually exclusive meanings. The first refers to the result itself. Dhyana is the same word as the Pali "Jhana." The Buddha counted eight Jhanas, which are evidently different degrees and kinds of trance. The Hindu also speaks of Dhyana as a lesser form of Samadhi. Others, however, treat it as if it were merely an intensification of Dharana. Patanjali says: "Dhrana is holding the mind on to some particular object. An unbroken flow of knowledge in that subject is Dhyana. When that, giving up all forms, reflects only the meaning, it is Samadhi." He combines these three into Samyama.

We shall treat of Dhyana as a result rather than as a method. Up to this point ancient authorities have been fairly reliable guides, except with regard to their crabbed ethics; but when they get on the subject of results of meditation, they completely lose their heads.

They exhaust the possibilities of poetry to declare what is demonstrably untrue. For example, we find in the Shiva Sanhita that "he who daily contemplates on this lotus of the heart is eagerly desired by the daughters of Gods, has clairaudience, clairvoyance, and can walk in the air." Another person "can make gold, discover medicine for disease, and see hidden treasures." All this is filth. What is the curse upon religion that its tenets must always be associated with every kind of extravagance and falsehood?

There is one exception; it is the A.'.A.'., whose members are extremely careful to make no statement at all that cannot be verified in the usual manner; or where this is not easy, at least avoid anything like a dogmatic statement. In Their second book of practical instruction, Liber O, occur these words:

"By doing certain things certain results will follow. Students are most earnestly warned against attributing objective reality or philosophical validity to any of them."

Those golden words!

In discussing Dhyana, then, let it be clearly understood that something unexpected is about to be described.

We shall consider its nature and estimate its value in a perfectly unbiassed way, without allowing ourselves the usual rhapsodies, or deducing any theory of the universe. One extra fact may destroy some existing theory; that is common enough. But no single fact is sufficient to construct one.

It will have been understood that Dharana, Dhyana, and Samadhi form a continuous process, and exactly when the climax comes does not matter. It is of this climax that we must speak, for this is a matter of "experience," and a very striking one.

In the course of our concentration we noticed that the contents of the mind at any moment consisted of two things, and no more: the Object, variable, and the Subject, invariable, or apparently so. By success in Dharana the object has been made as invariable as the subject.

Now the result of this is that the two become one. This phenomenon usually comes as a tremendous shock. It is indescribable even by the masters of language; and it is therefore not surprising that semi-educated stutterers wallow in oceans of gush.

All the poetic faculties and all the emotional faculties are thrown into a sort of ecstasy by an occurrence which overthrows the mind, and makes the rest of life seem absolutely worthless in comparison.

Good literature is principally a matter of clear observation and good judgment expressed in the simplest way. For this reason none of the great events of history (such as earthquakes and battles) have been well described by eye-witnesses, unless those eye-witnesses were out of danger. But even when one has become accustomed to Dhyana by constant repetition, no words seem adequate.

One of the simplest forms of Dhyana may be called "the Sun." The sun is seen (as it were) by itself, not by an observer; and although the physical eye cannot behold the sun, one is compelled to make the statement that this "Sun" is far more brilliant than the sun of nature. The whole thing takes place on a higher level.

Also the conditions of thought, time, and space are abolished. It is impossible to explain what this really means: only experience can furnish you with apprehension.

(This, too, has its analogies in ordinary life; the conceptions of higher mathematics cannot be grasped by the beginner, cannot be explained to the layman.)

A further development is the appearance of the Form which has been universally described as human; although the persons describing it proceed to add a great number of details which are not human at all. This particular appearance is usually assumed to be "God."

But, whatever it may be, the result on the mind of the student is tremendous; all his thoughts are pushed to their greatest development. He sincerely believes that they have the divine sanction; perhaps he even supposes that they emanate from this "God." He goes back into the world armed with this intense conviction and authority. He proclaims his ideas without the restraint which is imposed upon most persons by doubt, modesty, and diffidence;

footnote: This lack of restraint is not to be confused with that observed in intoxication and madness. Yet there is a very striking similarity, though only a superficial one.
while further there is, one may suppose, a real clarification.
In any case, the mass of mankind is always ready to be swayed by anything thus authoritative and distinct. History is full of stories of officers who have walked unarmed up to a mutinous regiment, and disarmed them by the mere force of confidence. The power of the orator over the mob is well known. It is, probably, for this reason that the prophet has been able to constrain mankind to obey his law. I never occurs to him that any one can do otherwise. In practical life one can walk past any guardian, such as a sentry or ticket-collector, if one can really act so that the man is somehow persuaded that you have a right to pass unchallenged.

This power, by the way, is what has been described by magicians as the power of invisibility. Somebody or other has an excellent story of four quite reliable men who were on the look-out for a murderer, and had instructions to let no one pass, and who all swore subsequently in presence of the dead body that no one had passed. None of them had seen the postman.

The thieves who stole the "Gioconda" from the Louvre were probably disguised as workmen, and stole the picture under the very eye of the guardian; very likely got him to help them.

It is only necessary to believe that a thing must be to bring it about. This belief must not be an emotional or an intellectual one. It resides in a deeper portion of the mind, yet a portion not so deep but that most men, probably all successful men, will understand these words, having experience of their own with which they can compare it.

The most important factor in Dhyana is, however, the annihilation of the Ego. Our conception of the universe must be completely overturned if we are to admit this as valid; and it is time that we considered what is really happening.

It will be conceded that we have given a very rational explanation of the greatness of great men. They had an experience so overwhelming, so out of proportion to the rest of things, that they were freed from all the petty hindrances which prevent the normal man from carrying out his projects.

Worrying about clothes, food, money, what people may think, how and why, and above all the fear of consequences, clog nearly every one. Nothing is easier, theoretically, than for an anarchist to kill a king. He has only to buy a rifle, make himself a first-class shot, and shoot the king from a quarter of a mile away. And yet, although there are plenty of anarchists, outrages are very few. At the same time, the police would probably be the first to admit that if any man were really tired of life, in his deepest being, a state very different from that in which a man goes about saying he is tired of life, he could manage somehow or other to kill someone first.

Now the man who has experienced any of the more intense forms of Dhyana is thus liberated. The Universe is thus destroyed for him, and he for it. His will can therefore go on its way unhampered. One may imagine that in the case of Mohammed he had cherished for years a tremendous ambition, and never done anything because those qualities which were subsequently manifested as statesmanship warned him that he was impotent. His vision in the cave gave him that confidence which was required, the faith that moves mountains. There are a lot of solid-seeming things in this world which a child could push over; but not one has the courage to push.

Let us accept provisionally this explanation of greatness, and pass it by. Ambition has led us to this point; but we are now interested in the work for its own sake.

A most astounding phenomenon has happened to us; we have had an experience which makes Love, fame, rank, ambition, wealth, look like thirty cents; and we begin to wonder passionately, "What is truth?" The Universe has tumbled about our ears like a house of cards, and we have tumbled too. Yet this ruin is like the opening of the Gates of Heaven! Here is a tremendous problem, and there is something within us which ravins for its solution.

Let us see what what explanation we can find.

The first suggestion which would enter a well-balanced mind, versed in the study of nature, is that we have experienced a mental catastrophe. Just as a blow on the head will made a man "see stars," so one might suppose that the terrific mental strain of Dharana has somehow over-excited the brain, and caused a spasm, or possibly even the breaking of a small vessel. There seems no reason to reject this explanation altogether, though it would be quite absurd to suppose that to accept it would be to condemn the practice. Spasm is a normal function of at least one of the organs of the body. That the brain is not damaged by the practice is proved by the fact that many people who claim to have had this experience repeatedly continue to exercise the ordinary avocations of life without diminished activity.

We may dismiss, then the physiological question. It throws no light on the main problem, which is the value of the testimony of the experience.

Now this is a very difficult question, and raises the much larger question as to the value of any testimony. Every possible thought has been doubted at some time or another, except the thought which can only be expressed by a note of interrogation, since to doubt that thought asserts it. (For a full discussion see "The Soldier and the Hunchback," "Equinox," I.) But apart from this deep-seated philosophic doubt there is the practical doubt of every day. The popular phrase, "to doubt the evidence of one's senses," shows us that that evidence is normally accepted; but a man of science does nothing of the sort. He is so well aware that his senses constantly deceive him, that he invents elaborate instruments to correct them. And he is further aware that the Universe which he can directly perceive through sense, is the minutest fraction of the Universe which he knows indirectly.

For example, four-fifths of the air is composed of nitrogen. If anyone were to bring a bottle of nitrogen into this room it would be exceedingly difficult to say what it was; nearly all the tests that one could apply to it would be negative. His senses tell him little or nothing.

Argon was only discovered at all by comparing the weight of chemically pure nitrogen with that of the nitrogen of the air. This had often been done, but no one had sufficiently fine instruments even to perceive the discrepancy. To take another example, a famous man of science asserted not so long ago that science could never discover the chemical composition of the fixed stars. Yet this has been done, and with certainty.

If you were to ask your man of science for his "theory of the real," he would tell you that the "ether," which cannot be perceived in any way by any of the senses, or detected by any instruments, and which possesses qualities which are, to use ordinary language, impossible, is very much more real than the chair he is sitting on. The chair is only one fact; and its existence is testified by one very fallible person. The ether is the necessary deduction from millions of facts, which have been verified again and again and checked by every possible test of truth. There is therefore no "a priori" reason for rejecting anything on the ground that it is not directly perceived by the senses.

To turn to another point. One of our tests of truth is the vividness of the impression. An isolated event in the past of no great importance may be forgotten; and if it be in some way recalled, one may find one's self asking: "Did I dream it? or did it really happen?" What can never be forgotten is the "catastrophic". The first death among the people that one loves (for example) would never be forgotten; for the first time one would "realize" what one had previously merely "known". Such an experience sometimes drives people insane. Men of science have been known to commit suicide when their pet theory has been shattered. This problem has been discussed freely in "Science and Buddhism,"

footnote: See Crowley, "Collected Works."
"Time," "The Camel," and other papers. This much only need we say in this place that Dhyana has to be classed as the most vivid and catastrophic of all experiences. This will be confirmed by any one who has been there.
It is, then, difficult to overrate the value that such an experience has for the individual, especially as it is his entire conception of things, including his most deep-seated conception, the standard to which he has always referred everything, his own self, that is overthrown; and when we try to explain it away as hallucination, temporary suspension of the faculties or something similar, we find ourselves unable to do so. You cannot argue with a flash of lightning that has knocked you down.

Any mere theory is easy to upset. One can find flaws in the reasoning process, one can assume that the premisses are in some way false; but in this case, if one attacks the evidence for Dhyana, the mind is staggered by the fact that all other experience, attacked on the same lines, will fall much more easily.

In whatever way we examine it the result will always be the same. Dhyana may be false; but, if so, so is everything else.

Now the mind refuses to rest in a belief of the unreality of its own experiences. It may not be what is seems; but it must be something, and if (on the whole) ordinary life is something, how much more must that be by whose light ordinary life seems nothing!

The ordinary man sees the falsity and disconnectedness and purposelessness of dreams; he ascribes them (rightly) to a disordered mind. The philosopher looks upon waking life with similar contempt; and the person who has experienced Dhyana takes the same view, but not by mere pale intellectual conviction. Reasons, however cogent, never convince utterly; but this man in Dhyana has the same commonplace certainty that a man has on waking from a nightmare. "I wasn't falling down a thousand flights of stairs, it was only a bad dream."

Similarly comes the reflection of the man who has had experience of Dhyana: "I am not that wretched insect, that imperceptible parasite of earth; it was only a bad dream." And as you could not convince the normal man that his nightmare was more real than his awakening, so you cannot convince the other that his Dhyana was hallucination, even though he is only too well aware that he has fallen from that state into "normal" life.

It is probably rare for a single experience to upset thus radically the whole conception of the Universe, just as sometimes, in the first moments of waking, there remains a half-doubt as to whether dream or waking is real. But as one gains further experience, when Dhyana is no longer a shock, when the student has had plenty of time to make himself at home in the new world, this conviction will become absolute.

Footnote: It should be remembered that at present there are no data for determining the duration of Dhyana. One can only say that, since it certainly occured between such and such hours, it must have lasted less than that time. Thus we see, from Frater P.'s record, that it can certianly occur in less than an hour and five minutes.
Another rationalist consideration is this. The student has not been trying to excite the mind but to calm it, not to produce any one thought but to exclude all thoughts; for there is no connection between the object of meditation and the Dhyana. Why must we suppose a breaking down of the whole process, especially as the mind bears no subsequent traces of any interference, such as pain or fatigue? Surely this once, if never again, the Hindu image expresses the simplest theory!

That image is that of a lake into which five glaciers move. These glaciers are the senses. While ice (the impressions) is breaking off constantly into the lake, the waters are troubled. If the glaciers are stopped the surface becomes calm; and then, and only then, can it reflect unbroken the disk of the sum. This sun is the "soul" or "God."

We should, however, avoid these terms for the present, on account of their implications. Let us rather speak of this sun as "some unknown thing whose presence has been masked by all things known, and by the knower."

It is probable, too, that our memory of Dhyana is not of the phenomenon itself, but of the image left thereby on the mind. But this is true of all phenomena, as Berkeley and Kant have proved beyond all question. This matter, then, need not concern us.

We may, however, provisionally accept the view that Dhyana is real; more real and thus of more importance to ourselves than all other experience. This state has been described not only by the Hindus and Buddhists, but by Mohammedans and Christians. In Christian writings, however, the deeply-seated dogmatic bias has rendered their documents worthless to the average man. They ignore the essential conditions of Dhyana, and insist on the inessential, to a much greater extent than the best Indian writers. But to any one with experience and some knowledge of comparative religion the identity is certain. We may now proceed to Samadhi.

CHAPTER VII 
SAMADHI

MORE rubbish has been written about Samadhi than enough; we must endeavour to avoid adding to the heap. Even Patanjali, who is extraordinarily clear and practical in most things, begins to rave when he talks of it. Even if what he said were true he should not have mentioned it; because it does not sound true, and we should make no statement that is à priori improbable without being prepared to back it up with the fullest proofs. But it is more than likely that his commentators have misunderstood him.

The most reasonable statement, of any acknowledged authority, is that of Vajna Valkya, who says: "By Pranayama impurities of the body are thrown out; by Dharana the impurities of the mind; by Pratyahara the impurities of attachment; and by Samadhi is taken off everything that hides the lordship of the soul." There is a modest statement in good literary form. If we can only do as well as that!

In the first place, what is the meaning of the term? Etymologically, "Sam" is the Greek {in Greek alphabet: sigma-upsilon-nu--} the English prefix "syn-" meaning "together with." "Adhi" means "Lord," and a reasonable translation of the whole word would be "Union with God," the exact term used by Christian mystics to describe their attainment.

Now there is great confusion, because the Buddhists use the word Samadhi to mean something entirely different, the mere faculty of attention. Thus, with them, to think of a cat is to "make Samadhi" on that cat. They use the word Jhana to describe mystic states. This is excessively misleading, for as we saw in the last section, Dhyana is a preliminary of Samadhi, and of course Jhana is merely the wretched plebeian Pali corruption of it.

footnote: The vulgarism and provincialism of the Buddhist cannon is infinitely repulsive to all nice minds; and the attempt to use the terms of an ego-centric philosophy to explain the details of a psychology whose principal doctrine is the denial of the ego, was the work of a mischievous idiot. Let us unhesitatingly reject these abominations, these nastinesses of the beggars dressed in rags that they have snatched from corpses, and follow the etymological signification of the word as given above!
There are many kinds of Samadhi.

footnote: Apparently. That is, the obvious results are different. Possibly the cause is only one, refracted through diverse media.
"Some authors consider Atmadarshana, the Universe as a single phenomenon without conditions, to be the first real Samadhi." If we accept this, we must relegate many less exalted states to the class of Dhyana. Patanjali enumerates a number of these states: to perform these on different things gives different magical powers; or so he says. These need not be debated here. Any one who wants magic powers can get them in dozens of different ways.
Power grows faster than desire. The boy who wants money to buy lead soldiers sets to work to obtain it, and by the time he has got it wants something else instead -- in all probability something just beyond his means.

Such is the splendid history of all spiritual advance! One never stops to take the reward.

We shall therefore not trouble at all about what any Samadhi may or may not bring as far as its results in our lives are concerned. We began this book, it will be remembered, with considerations of death. Death has now lost all meaning. The idea of death depends on those of the ego, and of time; these ideas have been destroyed; and so "Death is swallowed up in victory." We shall now only be interested in what Samadhi is in itself, and in the conditions which cause it.

Let us try a final definition. Dhyana resembles Samadhi in many respects. There is a union of the ego and the non-ego, and a loss of the senses of time and space and causality. Duality in any form is abolished. The idea of time involves that of two consecutive things, that of space two non-coincident things, that of causality two connected things.

These Dhyanic conditions contradict those of normal thought; but in Samadhi they are very much more marked than in Dhyana. And while in the latter it seems like a simple union of two things, in the former it appears as if all things rushed together and united. One might say that in Dhyana there was still this quality latent, that the One existing was opposed to the Many non-existing; in Samadhi the Many and the One are united in a union of Existence with non-Existence. This definition is not made from reflection, but from memory.

Further, it is easy to master the "trick" or "knack" of Dhyana. After a while one can get into that state without preliminary practice; and, looking at it from this point, one seems able to reconcile the two meanings of the word which we debated in the last section. From below Dhyana seems like a trance, an experience so tremendous that one cannot think of anything bigger, while from above it seems merely a state of mind as natural as any other. Frater P., before he had Samadhi, wrote of Dhyana: "Perhaps as a result of the intense control a nervous storm breaks: this we call Dhyana. Samadhi is but an expansion of this, so far as I can see."

Five years later he would not take this view. He would say perhaps that Dhyana was "a flowing of the mind in one unbroken current from the ego to the non-ego without consciousness of either, accompanied by a crescent wonder and bliss." He can understand how that is the natural result of Dhyana, but he cannot call Dhyana in the same way the precursor of Samadhi. Perhaps he does not really know the conditions which induce Samadhi. He can produce Dhyana at will in the course of a few minutes' work; and it often happens with apparent spontaneity: with Samadhi this is unfortunately not the case. He probably can get it at will, but could not say exactly how, or tell how long it might take him; and he could not be "sure" of getting it at all.

One feels "sure" that one can walk a mile along a level road. One knows the conditions, and it would have to be a very extraordinary set of circumstances that would stop one. But though it would be equally fair to say: "I have climbed the Matterhorn and I know I can climb it again," yet there are all sorts of more or less probable circumstances any one of which would prevent success.

Now we do know this, that if thought is kept single and steady, Dhyana results. We do not know whether an intensification of this is sufficient to cause Samadhi, or whether some other circumstances are required. One is science, the other empiricism.

One author says (unless memory deceives) that twelve seconds' steadiness is Dharana, a hundred and forty-four Dhyana, and seventeen hundred and twenty-eight Samadhi. And Vivekananda, commenting on Patanjali, makes Dhyana a mere prolongation of Dharana; but says further: "Suppose I were meditating on a book, and I gradually succeeded in concentrating the mind on it , and perceiving only the internal sensation, the meaning unexpressed in any form, that state of Dhyana is called Samadhi."

Other authors are inclined to suggest that Samadhi results from meditating on subjects that are in themselves worthy. For example, Vivekananda says: "Think of any holy subject:" and explains this as follows: "This does not mean any wicked subject."(!)

Frater P. would not like to say definitely whether he ever got Dhyana from common objects. He gave up the practice after a few months, and meditated on the Cakkras, etc. Also his Dhyana became so common that he gave up recording it. But if he wished to do it this minute he would choose something to excite his "godly fear," or "holy awe," or "wonderment."

footnote: It is rather a breach of the scepticism which is the basis of our system to admit that anything can be in any way better than another. Do it thus: "A., is a thing that B. thinks 'holy.' It is natural therefore for B. to meditate on it." Get rid of the ego, observe all your actions as if they were another's, and you will avoid ninety-nine percent. of the troubles that await you.
There is no apparent reason why Dhyana should not occur when thinking of any common object of the sea-shore, such as a blue pig; but Frater P.'s constant reference to this as the usual object of his meditation need not be taken "au pied de la lettre." His records of meditation contain no reference to this remarkable animal.
It will be a good thing when organized research has determined the conditions of Samadhi; but in the meantime there seems no particular objection to our following tradition, and using the same objects of meditation as our predecessors, with the single exception which we shall note in due course.

The first class of objects for serious meditation (as opposed to preliminary practice, in which one should keep to simple recognizable objects, whose definiteness is easy to maintain) is "various parts of the body." The Hindus have an elaborate system of anatomy and physiology which has apparently no reference to the facts of the dissecting-room. Prominent in this class are the seven Cakkras, which will be described in Part II. There are also various "nerves", equally mythical.

WEH footnote: Not quite correct. Western anatomical knowledge has advanced since Crowley wrote this!
The second class is "objects of devotion," such as the idea or form of the Deity, or the heart or body of your Teacher, or of some man whom you respect profoundly. This practice is not to be commended, because it implies a bias of the mind.

You can also meditate on "your dreams." This sounds superstitious; but the idea is that you have already a tendency, independent of your conscious will, to think of those things, which will consequently be easier to think of than others. That this is the explanation is evident from the nature of the preceding and subsequent classes.

You can also meditate on "anything that especially appeals to you."

But in all this one feels inclined to suggest that it will be better and more convincing if the meditation is directed to an object which in itself is apparently unimportant. One does not want the mind to be excited in any way, even by adoration. See the three meditative methods in Liber HHH (Equinox VI.).

footnote: These are the complements of the three methods of Enthusiasm (A.'.A.'. instruction not yet issued up to March 1912.)
At the same time, one would not like to deny positively that it is very much "easier" to take some idea towards which the mind would naturally flow.
The Hindus assert that the nature of the object determines the Samadhi; that is, the nature of those lower Samadhis which confer so-called "magic powers." For example, there are the Yogapravritti. Meditating on the tip of the nose, one obtains what may be called the "ideal smell"; that is, a smell which is not any particular smell, but is the archetypal smell, of which all actual smells are modifications. It is "the smell which is "not" a smell." This is the only reasonable description; for the experience being contrary to reason, it is only reasonable that the words describing it should be contrary to reason too.

footnote: Hence the Athanasian Creed. Compare the precise parallel in the Zohar: "The Head which is above all heads; the Head which is "not" a Head.'
Similarly, concentration on the tip of the tongue gives the "ideal taste"; on the dorsum of the tongue, "ideal contact." "Every atom of the body comes into contact with every atom in the Universe all at once," is the description Bhikku Ananda Metteya gives of it. The root of the tongue gives the "ideal sound"; and the pharynx the "ideal sight."

footnote: Similarly Patanjali tells us that by making Samyama on the strength of an elephant or a tiger, the student acquires that strength. Conquer "the nerve Udana," and you can walk on the water; "Samana," and you begin to flash with light; the "elements" fire, air, earth, and water, and you can do whatever in natural life they prevent you from doing. For instance, by conquering earth, one could take a short cut to Australia; or by conquering water, one can live at the bottom of the Ganges. They say there is a holy man at Benares who does this, coming up only once a year to comfort and instruct his disciples. But nobody need believe this unless he wants to; and you are even advised to conquer that desire should it arise. It will be interesting when science really determines the variables and constants of these equations.
The Samadhi "par excellence," however, is Atmadarshana, which for some, and those not the least instructed, is the first real Samadhi; for even the visions of "God" and of the "Self" are tainted by form. In Atmadarshana the All is manifested as the One: it is the Universe freed from its conditions. Not only are all forms and ideas destroyed, but also those conceptions which are implicit in our ideas of those ideas.

footnote: This is so complete that not only "Black is White," but "The Whiteness of Black is the essential of its Blackness." "Naught = One = Infinity"; but this is only true "because" of this threefold arrangement, a trinity or "triangle of contradictories."
Each part of the Universe has become the whole, and phenomena and noumena are no longer opposed.
But it is quite impossible to describe this state of mind. One can only specify some of the characteristics, and that in language which forms no image in mind. It is impossible for anyone who experiences it to bring back any adequate memory, nor can we conceive a state transcending this.

There is, however, a very much higher state called Shivadarshana, of which it is only necessary to say that it is the destruction of the previous state, its annihilation; and to understand this blotting-out, one must not imagine "Nothingness" (the only name for it) as negative, but as positive.

The normal mind is a candle in a darkened room. Throw open the shutters, and the sunlight makes the flame invisible. That is a fair image of Dhyana.

footnote: Here the dictation was interrupted by very prolonged thought due to the difficulty of making the image clear. Virakam.
But the mind refuses to find a simile for Atmadarshana. It seems merely ineffective to say that the rushing together of all the host of heaven would similarly blot out the sunlight. But if we do say so, and wish to form a further image of Shivadarshana, we must imagine ourselves as suddenly recognizing that this universal blaze is darkness; not a light extremely dim compared with some other light, but darkness itself. It is not the change from the minute to the vast, or even from the finite to the infinite. It is the recognition that the positive is merely the negative. The ultimate truth is perceived not only as false, but as the logical contradictory of truth. It is quite useless to elaborate this theme, which has baffled all other minds hitherto. We have tried to say as little as possible rather than as much as possible.

footnote: Yet all this has come of our desire to be as modest as Yajna Valkya!
Still further from our present purpose would it be to criticise the innumerable discussions which have taken place as to whether this is the ultimate attainment, or what it confers. It is enough if we say that even the first and most transitory Dhyana repays a thousandfold the pains we may have taken to attain it.

And there is this anchor for the beginner, that his work is cumulative: every act directed towards attainment builds up a destiny which must some day come to fruition. May all attain!

SUMMARY

Q.
What is genius, and how is it produced?
A.
Let us take several specimens of the species, and try to find some one thing common to all which is not found in other species.
Q.
Is there any such thing?
A.
Yes: all geniuses have the habit of concentration of thought, and usually need long periods of solitude to acquire this habit. In particular the greatest religious geniuses have all retired from the world at one time or another in their lives, and begun to preach immediately on their return.
Q.
Of what advantage is such a retirement? One would expect that a man who so acted would find himself on his return out of touch with his civilization, and in every way less capable than when he left.
A.
But each claims, though in different language, to have gained in his absence some superhuman power.
Q.
Do you believe this?
A.
It becomes us ill to reject the assertions of those who are admittedly the greatest of mankind until we can refute them by proof, or at least explain how they may have been mistaken. In this case each teacher left instructions for us to follow. The only scientific method is for us to repeat their experiments, and so confirm or disprove their results.
Q.
But their instructions differ widely!
A.
Only in so far as each was bound by conditions of time, race, climate and language. There is essential identity in the method.
Q.
Indeed!
A.
It was the great work of the life of Frater Perdurabo to prove this. Studying each religious practice of each great religion on the spot, he was able to show the Identity-in-diversity of all, and to formulate a method free from all dogmatic bias, and based only on the ascertained facts of anatomy, physiology, and psychology.
Q.
Can you give me a brief abstract of this method?
A.
The main idea is that the Infinite, the Absolute, God, the Over-soul, or whatever you may prefer to call it, is always present; but veiled or masked by the thoughts of the mind, just as one cannot hear a heart-beat in a noisy city.
Q.
Yes?
A.
Then to obtain knowledge of That, it is only necessary to still all thoughts.
Q.
But in sleep thought is stilled?
A.
True, perhaps, roughly speaking; but the perceiving function is stilled also.
Q.
Then you wish to obtain a perfect vigilance and attention of the mind, uninterrupted by the rise of thoughts?
A.
Yes.
Q.
And how do you proceed?
A.
Firstly, we still the body by the practice called Asana, and secure its ease and the regularity of its functions by Pranayama. Thus no messages from the body will disturb the mind.
Secondly, by Yama and Niyama, we still the emotions and passions, and thus prevent them arising to disturb the mind.
Thirdly, by Pratyahara we analyse the mind yet more deeply, and begin to control and suppress thought in general of whatever nature.
Fourthly, we suppress all other thoughts by a direct concentration upon a single thought. This process, which leads to the highest results, consists of three parts, Dharana, Dhyana, and Samadhi, grouped under the single term Samyama.
Q.
How can I obtain further knowledge and experience of this?
A.
The A.'.A.'. is an organization whose heads have obtained by personal experience to the summit of this science. They have founded a system by which every one can equally attain, and that with an ease and speed which was previously impossible.
The first grade in Their system is that of
STUDENT.
A Student must possess the following books:

The Equinox,
777.
Konx Om Pax.
Collected Works of A. Crowley; Tannhauser, The Sword of Song, Time, Eleusis. 3 vols.
Raja Yoga, by Swami Vivekananda.
The Shiva Sanhita, or the Hathayoga Pradipika.
The Tao Teh King and the writings of Kwang Tze: S.B.E. xxxix, xl.
The Spiritual Guide, by Miguel de Molinos.
Rituel et Dogme de la Haute Magie, by Eliphas Levi, or its translation by A. E. Waite.
The Goetia of the Lemegeton of Solomon the King.
These books should be well studied in any case in conjunction with the second part -- Magick -- of this Book IV.
Study of these books will give a thorough grounding in the intellectual side of Their system.

After three months the Student is examined in these books, and if his knowledge of them is found satisfactory, he may become a Probationer, receiving Liber LXI and the secret holy book, Liber LXV. The principal point of this grade is that the Probationer has a master appointed, whose experience can guide him in his work.

He may select any practices that he prefers, but in any case must keep an exact record, so that he may discover the relation of cause and effect in his working, and so that the A.'.A.'. may judge of his progress, and direct his further studies.

After a year of probation he may be admitted a Neophyte of the A.'.A.'., and receive the secret holy book Liber VII.

These are the principal instructions for practice which every probationer should follow out:

Libri E, A, O, III, XXX, CLXXV, CC, CCVI, CMXIII.

THE FIRST GESTURE.

The Oath of the Enchantment, which is called The Elevenfold Seal.

The Animadversion towards the Aeon.

1. Let the Magician, robed and armed as he may deem to be fit, turn his face towards Boleskine, that is the House of The Beast 666. {Note 1: Boleskine House is on Loch Ness, 17 miles from Inverness, Latitude 57.14 N. Longitude 4.28 W.}

[Note that this implies that the direction of Boleskine should be taken as "East" in the temple, as is specified in Liber XV, the Gnostic Mass. However it does not necessarily have to be so. 
Since later the text specifies that the Magician must grasp his Wand, the "robed and armed as he may deem to be fit" is not as wide-ranging as it may sound.]

2. Let him strike the battery 1-3-3-3-1.

[Eleven knocks, eleven being the number of magical energy - see Liber AL I, 60. Note that there are four sets of eleven knocks during the complete ritual, making 44 in total, representing the materialisation of magical energy, and also being a number of Ra-Hoor-Khuit. See Liber XLIV, The Mass of the Phoenix.]

3. Let him put the Thumb of his right hand between its index and medius, and make the gestures hereafter following.

[The thumb being the finger attributed to Spirit, and also containing an important centre of cakkric energy. Again see also Liber XV.]

The Vertical Component of the Enchantment.

1. Let him describe a circle about his head, crying NUIT!

[The Sahashara Cakkra, above the head, attributed to Ain Soph on the Tree of Life.]

2. Let him draw the Thumb vertically downward and touch the Muladhara Cakkra, crying, HADIT!

[The Muladhara (Earth centre, attributed to Malkuth on the Tree of Life) is found at the base of the spine, or at the perineum just behind the genital region, opinions differ. I'd suggest the latter in practice, since touching the base of the spine during the rite is somewhat awkward.]

3. Let him, retracing the line, touch the centre of his breast and cry RA-HOOR-KHUIT!

[The Anahata Cakkra - the solar centre, attributed to Tiphareth, or perhaps more accurately to the triangle Chesed, Geburah, Tiphareth. This will especially make sense to initiates of the Second Degree of OTO. Note that the symbol of Ra-Hoor-Khuit is a downward pointing red triangle of fire.]

The Horizontal Components of the Enchantment.

1. Let him touch the Centre of his Forehead, his mouth, and his larynx, crying AIWAZ!

[The centre of the forehead is the location of the Ajna Cakkra, the larynx the location of the Vishuddha Cakkra, attributed to Saturn and Da'ath. The mouth is the only one of these which is not a primary Cakkra - perhaps because Aiwaz is the voice of the Gods - see Liber AL. Interestingly the mouth is a minor Cakkra - the Kala Cakkra.]

2. Let him draw his thumb from right to left across his face at the level of the nostrils.

[This forms the cross-path on the Tree of Life from Binah to Chokmah , the path of The Empress]

3. Let him touch the centre of his breast, and his solar plexus, crying, THERION!

[The Anahata again and the Manipura. Both of these together are attributed to the Chesed, Geburah, Tiphareth triangle; I know this is odd, but that's just one of the problems of trying to relate two widely varying systems. The Tree of Life has only five Sephiroth on the Middle Pillar, whereas the yoga system used here has seven primary Cakkras.]

4. Let him draw his thumb from left to right across his breast, at the level of the sternum.

[The cross-path linking Chesed to Geburah, the path of Lust]

5. Let him touch the Svadistthana, and the Muladhara Cakkra, crying, BABALON!

[The Svadistthana is located in the genital region, attributed to Yesod and the Moon.]

6. Let him draw his thumb from right to left across his abdomen, at the level of the hips.

[The cross-path linking Hod and Netzach on the Tree, the path of The Tower. Note that the numerological value of the three cross-paths added together is 93. I don't know why the crossbars go in these directions. They do not follow the path of the Lightning Flash as it shoots downward from Kether to Malkuth - perhaps there may be a reference to the direction of spin of the cakkras.]

(Thus shall he formulate the Sigil of the Grand Hierophant, but dependent from the Circle.)

[The Sigil of the Grand Hierophant being the triple cross.]

The Asseveration of the Spells.

1. Let the Magician clasp his hands upon his Wand, his fingers and thumbs interlaced, crying LAShTAL! THELEMA! FIAOF! AGAPE! AUMGN! 
(Thus shall be declared the Words of Power whereby the Energies of the Aeon of Horus work his will in the World.)

[Each of these Words has the numerical value of 93. Since there are five of them and they are repeated once, plus an extra THELEMA in the middle, there are a total of 11 "93" Words in the rite. Note that the F's in FIAOF are silent, as is the GN in AUMGN. For more on these words see Book 4 Part III, Magick in Theory & Practice.
Furthermore, in this First Gesture there are six god names mentioned: Nuit, Hadit, Ra-Hoor-Khuit, Aiwaz, Therion, Babalon; and five "93" words. Eleven invocations in total, thus is it named The Elevenfold Seal. The combination of the six and five is a very important facet of the rite - see section 23, lines h & i.]

The Proclamation of the Accomplishment.

1. Let the Magician strike the Battery: 3-5-3, crying ABRAHADABRA.

The SECOND GESTURE.

The Enchantment.

1. Let the Magician, still facing Boleskine, advance to the circumference of his circle.
2. Let him turn himself towards the left, and pace with the stealth and swiftness of a tiger the precincts of his circle, until he complete one revolution thereof.
3. Let him give the Sign of Horus (or The Enterer) as he passeth, so to project the force that radiateth from Boleskine before him.

[This sign is made by leaning forward, advancing the left foot and throwing the arms out horizontally before you, pointing with the index fingers as if to fire energy out of them.]

4. Let him pace his path until he comes to the North; there let him halt, and turn his face to the North.

[That is you go round one and a quarter times]

5. Let him trace with his wand the Averse Pentagram proper to invoke Air (Aquarius).

[An averse pentagram is one with the single point down, two points up. The Averse Air pentagram is drawn by starting at the bottom left point and going horizontally across to the right, then up left, down middle, up right, down left. i.e. go widdershins (anti-clockwise). In other words it is like an upright Air Pentagram rotated through 180 degrees.]

6. Let him bring the wand to the centre of the Pentagram and call upon NUIT!

[You should visualise the particular God or Goddess called in each quarter. If in doubt use the Tarot imagery. For Nuit, see Atu XVII, The Star; Atu XX, The Aeon; or Atu XXI, The Universe.]

7. Let him make the sign called Puella, standing with his feet together, head bowed, his left hand shielding the Muladhara Cakkra, and his right hand shielding his breast (attitude of the Venus de Medici).

[And where do you hold the wand while you're doing this? One solution is to grip it between your knees when you're making these signs. Yes, I know it doesn't sound too elegant, but it works.]

8. Let him turn again to the left, and pursue his Path as before, projecting the force from Boleskine as he passeth; let him halt when he next cometh to the South and face outward.

[i.e. go round one half circle]

9. Let him trace the Averse Pentagram that invoketh Fire (Leo).

[Start bottom middle and go deosil (clockwise) i.e. go up left and then round until you've completed the entire pentagram.]

10. Let him point his wand to the centre of the Pentagram, and cry, HADIT!

[See Atu XX, The Aeon - Hadit is the winged disk.]

11. Let him give the sign Puer, standing with feet together, and head erect. Let his right hand (the thumb extended at right angles to the fingers) be raised, the forearm vertical at a right angle with the upper arm, which is horizontally extended in the line joining the shoulders. Let his left hand, the thumb extended forwards and the fingers clenched, rest at the junction of the thighs (Attitude of the gods Mentu, Khem, etc.).

12. Let him proceed as before; then in the East, let him make the Averse Pentagram that invoketh Earth (Taurus).

[This time go round a quarter circle. The pentagram is drawn from bottom middle widdershins towards the upper right point and so on.]

13. Let him point his wand to the centre of the pentagram, and cry, THERION!

[See Atu XI, Lust - Therion is the Beast pictured.]

14. Let him give the sign called Vir, the feet being together. The hands, with clenched finger and thumbs thrust out forwards, are held to the temples; the head is then bowed and pushed out, as if to symbolize the butting of an horned beast (attitude of Pan, Bacchus, etc.). (Frontispiece, Equinox I, III).

15. Proceeding as before, let him make in the West the Averse Pentagram whereby Water is invoked.

[The Averse pentagram of Water: start at the bottom right and go across to the bottom left and thus round deosil. Note that the pentagrams change direction each time - first widdershins, then deosil, then widdershins again, then deosil.]

16. Pointing the wand to the centre of the Pentagram, let him call upon BABALON!

[See Atu XI again - Babalon is the Goddess riding on the Beast. Note that you "call upon" Nuit & Babalon but "cry" the other names. This may be significant in that the LA (feminine) forces are perceived as lying outside the direct sphere of your influence, and are requested in a softer manner than the masculine forces.]

17. Let him give the sign Mulier. The feet are widely separated, and the arms raised so as to suggest a crescent. The head is thrown back (attitude of Baphomet, Isis in Welcome, the Microcosm of Vitruvius). (See Book 4, Part II).

[You can't grip your wand between your knees here! So hold it in your hand...]

18. Let him break into the dance, tracing a centripetal spiral widdershins, enriched by revolutions upon his axis as he passeth each quarter, until he come to the centre of the circle. There let him halt, facing Boleskine.

[You go round the circle one complete revolution here. You've now done three and a half circles, the number of coils of the Kundalini, amongst other things. Compare the Priestess's dance in Liber XV, the Gnostic Mass, and note that 15 is 3x5. Also note that you have gone from Earth through Air, Water, and Fire, and thus to Spirit in the centre. You have raised yourself from the realm of the material to the world beyond.]

19. Let him raise the wand, trace the Mark of the Beast, and cry AIWAZ!

[The Mark of the Beast is a sign in the form of a solar circle with a dot in the middle, and below it a lunar crescent with two small crescents below that. You can draw it in one motion by going round the circle once, then making a wider arc to draw the crescent, then going back in two loops under the crescent. Yes, I know this still sounds pretty vague, but it's the best I can think of right now. As the pentagrams are symbols of the four material elements, so is the Mark of the Beast the symbol of Spirit. Aiwaz should be visualised as "a tall dark man in his thirties, well-knit, active and strong, with the face of a savage king, and eyes veiled lest their gaze destroy what they saw."]

20. Let him trace the invoking Hexagram of The Beast.

[This is the Unicursal Hexagram, drawn from the top middle point deosil towards the bottom right, top left, bottom middle, top right, bottom left, top middle.]

21. Let him lower the wand, striking the Earth therewith.

[The conception here is that you are bringing the Thelemic current from above down to the Earth. You are standing in both worlds and can act as a bridge between them.]

22. Let him give the sign of Mater Triumphans (The feet are together; the left arm is curved as if it supported a child; the thumb and index finger of the right hand pinch the nipple of the left breast, as if offering it to that child). Let him utter the word THELEMA!

[The child being the Thelemic magical current that you have set in motion, that you have birthed upon the Earth.]

23. Perform the spiral dance, moving deosil and whirling widdershins.

[As you have moved widdershins before to banish, so now you move deosil to invoke.]

Each time on passing the West extend the wand to the Quarter in question, and bow:

[Note that you extend the wand to the quarter, not bow to the quarter. Each time you bow to the West I assume, since bowing upwards, for example, is rather difficult.]

a. "Before me the powers of LA!" (to West.)
b. "Behind me the powers of AL!" (to East.)
c. "On my right hand the powers of LA!" (to North.)
d. "On my left hand the powers of AL!" (to South.)
e. "Above me the powers of ShT!" (leaping in the air.)
f. "Beneath me the powers of ShT!" (striking the ground.)

[LA means Nothing, and is directed to the West & North, since these are the negative, feminine quarters. AL means God, and is directed to the positive, masculine quarters. Note that we do not assume that positive is "better" then negative - it is simply a different polarity, as in an electrical current. ShT is the child of negative and positive energies, and the force that reconciles them. LA= 31, AL=31, ShT=31; thus 3x31=93]

g. "Within me the Powers!" (in the attitude of Phthah erect, the feet together, the hands clasped upon the vertical wand.)

[Phthah is the Creator God of Egypt. The conception is that you have built your own universe. I always find that this rite increases my creative powers greatly. For this reason it is to be particularly recommended to all those engaged in artistic pursuits.
Note that you've now done seven more circles, which is twice three and a half. So altogether in the rite you've gone round three and a half widdershins, then twice three and a half deosil, making a total of three times three and a half; or only once, depending on whether you count the widdershins circumnambulations as a positive or negative amount.]

h. "About me flames my Father's face, the Star of Force and Fire."

[My Father is this case is Baphomet, the All-Father of the Knights Templars. The Averse pentagram is occasionally drawn with Baphomet's face within its points, the two upward points being the horns, the lowest point his beard. See the well-known logo of the Church of Satan.]

i. "And in the Column stands His six-rayed Splendour!"

[Note: flames, father's, face, force, fire. Five F's. Qabalistically, F is Vau = 6, thus we have the 5 and 6 combined. 5x6=30.
Stands, six-rayed, splendour. Three S's. Qabalistically, S is Samekh = 60. 3x60=180. Plus the 30 from the previous line gives us a total of 210 = NOX.]

(This dance may be omitted, and the whole utterance chanted in the attitude of Phthah.)

The FINAL GESTURE.

This is identical with the First Gesture.

"1. Earth: the god Set fighting." Frontal figure. Rt. foot pointed to the fore and angled slightly outward with weight on ball of foot. Lf. heel touching Rt. heel and foot pointed left. Arms form a diagonal with body, right above head and in line with left at waist height. Hands palmer and open with fingers outstretched and together. Head erect.

"2. Air: The god Shu supporting the sky." Frontal. Heels together and slightly angled apart to the front, flat on floor. Head down. Arms angled up on either side of head about head 1.5 ft. from head to wrist and crooked as if supporting a ceiling just at head height with the finger tips. The palms face upward and the backs of the hands away from the head. Thumbs closed to side of palms. Fingers straight and together.

"3. Water: the goddess Auramoth." Same body and foot position as #2, but head erect. Arms are brought down over the chest so that the thumbs touch above the heart and the backs of the hands are to the front. The fingers meet below the heart, forming between thumbs and fingers the descending triangle of water.

"4. Fire: the goddess Thoum-aesh-neith." Frontal. Head and body like #3. Arms are angled so that the thumbs meet in a line over the brow. Palmer side facing. Fingers meet above head, forming between thumbs and fingers the ascending triangle of fire.

"5,6. Spirit: the rending and closing of the veil." Head erect in both. #5 has the same body posture as #1, except that the left and right feet are countercharged and flat on the floor. Arms and hands are crooked forward at shoulder level such that the hands appear to be clawing open a split veil --- hands have progressed to a point that the forearms are invisible, being directly pointed at the front. Upper arms are flat and horizontal in the plain of the image. #6. has the same body posture as #1, feet in same position as #1 but flat to the floor. The arms are elbow down against abdomen, with hands forward over heart in claws such that the knuckles are touching. Passing from #5 to #6 or vice versa is done by motion of shoulders and rotation of wrists. This is different from the other sign of opening the veil, the Sign of the Enterer, with is done with hands flat palm to palm and then spread without rotation of wrists.

"7-10. The L V X signs."

"7. + Osiris slain --- the cross." Body and feet as in #2. Head bowed. Arms directly horizontal from the shoulders in the plane of the image. Hands with fingers together, thumbs to side of palm and palmer side forward. The tau shape of the robe dominates the image.

"8. L Isis mourning --- the Svastica." The body is in semi-profile, head down slightly and facing right of photograph. The arms, hands, legs and feet are positioned to define a swastika. Left foot flat, carrying weight and angled toward the right of the photo. Right foot toe down behind the figure to the left in the photo. Right upper arm due left in photo and forearm vertical with fingers closed and pointing upward. Left arm smoothly canted down to the right of photo, with fingers closed and pointed down.

"9. V Typhon --- the Trident." Figure frontal and standing on tip toe, toes forward and heals not touching. Head back. Arms angled in a "V" with the body to the top and outward in the plain of the photo. Fingers and thumbs as #7, but continuing the lines of the arms.

"10. X Osiris risen --- the Pentagram." Body and feet as in #7. Head directly frontal and level. Arms crossed over heart, right over left with hands extended, fingers closed and thumb on side such that the palms rest on the two opposite shoulders.}

LIBER O
VEL
MANVS ET SAGITTAE
SVB FIGVRA
VI 
I.

1. This book is very easy to misunderstand; readers are asked to use the most minute critical care in the study of it, even as we have done in its preparation.

2. In this book it is spoken of the Sephiroth and the Paths; of Spirits and Conjurations; of Gods, Spheres, Planes, and many other things which may or may not exist.

It is immaterial whether these exist or not. By doing certain things certain results will follow; students are most earnestly warned against attributing objective reality or philosophic validity to any of them.

3. The advantages to be gained from them are chiefly these:
("a") A widening of the horizon of the mind.
("b") An improvement of the control of the mind.

4. The student, if he attains any success in the following practices, will find himself confronted by things (ideas or {13} beings) too glorious or too dreadful to be described. It is essential that he remain the master of all that he beholds, hears or conceives; otherwise he will be the slave of illusion, and the prey of madness.

Before entering upon any of these practices, the student should be in good health, and have attained a fair mastery of Asana, Pranayama and Dharana.

5. There is little danger that any student, however idle or stupid, will fail to get some result; but there is great danger that he will be led astray, obsessed and overwhelmed by his results, even though it be by those which it is necessary that he should attain. Too often, moreover, he mistaketh the first resting-place for the goal, and taketh off his armour as if he were a victor ere the fight is well begun.

It is desirable that the student should never attach to any result the importance which it at first seems to possess.

6. First, then, let us consider the Book "777" and its use; the preparation of the Place; the use of the Magic Ceremonies; and finally the methods which follow in Chapter V. "Viator in Regnis Arboris," and in Chapter VI. "Sagitta trans Lunam."

(In another book will it be treated of the Expansion and Contraction of Consciousness; progress by slaying the Chakkrams; progress by slaying the Pairs of Opposites; the methods of Sabhapaty Swami, &c., &c.)

II.

1. The student must FIRST obtain a thorough knowledge of "Book 777", especially of columns i., ii., iii., v., vi., vii., ix., xi., xii., xiv., xv., xvi., xvii., xviii., xix., xxxiv., xxxv., xxxviii., {14} xxxix., xl., xli., xlii., xlv., liv., lv., lix., lx., lxi., lxiii., lxx., lxxv., lxxvii., lxviii., lxxix., lxxx., lxxxi., lxxxiii., xcvii., xcviii., xcix., c., ci., cxvii., cxviii., cxxxvii., cxxxviii., cxxxix., clxxv., clxxvi., clxxvii., clxxxii.

When these are committed to memory, he will begin to understand the nature of these correspondences. ("See" Illustrations "The Temple of Solomon the King" in this number. Cross references are given.)

2. If we take an example, the use of the table will become clear.
Let us suppose that you wish to obtain knowledge of some obscure science.
In column xlv., line 12, you will find "Knowledge of Sciences."

By now looking up line 12 in the other columns, you will find that the Planet corresponding is Mercury, its number eight, its lineal figures the octagon and octagram. The God who rules that planet Thoth, or in Hebrew symbolism Tetragrammaton Adonai and Elohim Tzabaoth, its Archangel Raphael, its Choir of Angels Beni Elohim, its Intelligence Tiriel, its Spirit Taphtatharath, its colours Orange (for Mercury is the Sphere of the Sephira Hod, 8), Yellow, Purple, Grey, and Indigo rayed with Violet; its Magical Weapon the Wand or Caduceus, its Perfumes Mastic and others, its sacred plants Vervain and others, its jewel the Opal or Agate; its sacred animal the Snake, &c., &c.

3. You would then prepare your Place of Working accordingly. In an orange circle you would draw an eight-pointed star of yellow, at whose points you would place eight lamps. The Sigil of the Spirit (which is to be found in Cornelius {15} Agrippa and other books) you would draw in the four colours with such other devices as your experience may suggest.

4. And so on. We cannot here enter at length into all the necessary preparations; and the student will find them fully set forth in the proper books, of which the "Goetia" is perhaps the best example.

These rituals need not be slavishly imitated; on the contrary the student should do nothing the object of which he does not understand; also, if he have any capacity whatever, he will find his own crude rituals more effective than the highly polished ones of other people.

The general purpose of all this preparation is as follows:
5. Since the student is a man surrounded by material objects, if it be his wish to master one particular idea, he must make every material object about him directly suggest that idea. Thus in the ritual quoted, if his glance fall upon the lights, their number suggests Mercury; he smells the perfumes, and again Mercury is brought to his mind. In other words, the whole magical apparatus and ritual is a complex system of mnemonics.

[The importance of these lies principally in the fact that particular sets of images that the student may meet in his wanderings correspond to particular lineal figures, divine names, &c. and are controlled by them. As to the possibility of producing results external to the mind of the seer ("objective," in the ordinary common sense acceptation of the term) we are here silent.]

6. There are three important practices connected with all forms of ceremonial (and the two Methods which later we shall describe). These are: {16}
(1) Assumption of God-forms.
(2) Vibration of Divine Names.
(3) Rituals of "Banishing" and "Invoking".
These, at least, should be completely mastered before the dangerous Methods of Chapters V. and VI. are attempted.

III

1. The Magical Images of the Gods of Egypt should be made thoroughly familiar. This can be done by studying them in any public museum, or in such books as may be accessible to the student. They should then be carefully painted by him, both from the model and from memory.

2. The student, seated in the "God" position, or in the characteristic attitude of the God desired, should then imagine His image as coinciding with his own body, or as enveloping it. This must be practised until mastery of the image is attained, and an identity with it and with the God experienced.

It is a matter for very great regret that no simple and certain test of success in this practice exists.

3. The Vibration of God-names. As a further means of identifying the human consciousness with that pure portion of it which man calls by the name of some God, let him act thus:

4. ("a") Stand with arms outstretched. ("See" illustration.)
("b") Breathe in deeply through the nostrils, imagining the name of the God desired entering with the breath.
("c") Let that name descend slowly from the lungs to the heart, the solar plexus, the navel, the generative organs, and so to the feet. {17}
("d") The moment that it appears to touch the feet, quickly advance the left foot about 12 inches, throw forward the body, and let the hands (drawn back to the side of the eyes) shoot out, so that you are standing in the typical position of the God Horus,["See" Illustration in Vol. I. No. 1, "Blind Force."] and at the same time imagine the Name as rushing up and through the body, while you breathe it out through the nostrils with the air which has been till then retained in the lungs. All this must be done with all the force of which you are capable. 
("e") Then withdraw the left foot, and place the right forefinger upon the lips, so that you are in the characteristic position of the God Harpocrates["See" Illustration in Vol. I. No. 1, "The Silent Watcher."]

5. It is a sign that the student is performing this correctly when a single "Vibration" entirely exhausts his physical strength. It should cause him to grow hot all over, or to perspire violently, and it should so weaken him that he will find it difficult to remain standing.

6. It is a sign of success, though only by the student himself is it perceived, when he hears the name of the God vehemently roared forth, as if by the concourse of ten thousand thunders; and it should appear to him as if that Great Voice proceeded from the Universe, and not from himself.

In both the above practices all consciousness of anything but the God-form and name should be absolutely blotted out; and the longer it takes for normal perception to return, the better. {18}

IV

I. The Rituals of the Pentagram and Hexagram must be committed to memory; they are as follows:

The Lesser Ritual of the Pentagram
(i) Touching the forehead say Ateh (Unto Thee).
(ii) Touching the breast say Malkuth (The Kingdom).
(iii) Touching the right shoulder, say ve-Geburah (and the Power).
(iv) Touching the left shoulder, say ve-Gedulah (and the Glory).
(v) Clasping the hands upon the breast, say le-Olahm, Amen (To the Ages, Amen).
(vi) Turning to the East make a pentagram (that of Earth) with the proper weapon (usually the Wand). Say ("i.e." vibrate) I H V H.
(vii) Turning to the South, the same, but say A D N I.
(viii) Turning to the West, the same, but say A H I H.
(ix) Turning to the North, the same, but say A G L A.

Pronounce: Ye-ho-wau, Adonai, Eheieh, Agla.

(x) Extending the arms in the form of a Cross say:
(xi) Before me Raphael;
(xii) Behind me Gabriel;
(xiii) On my right hand Michael.
(xiv) On my left hand Auriel;
(xv) For about me flames the Pentagram,
(xvi) And in the Column stands the six-rayed Star.
(xvii-xxi) Repeat (i) to (v), the Qabalistic Cross. {19}

The Greater Ritual of the Pentagram.

The Pentagrams are traced in the air with the sword or other weapon, the name 
spoken aloud, and the signs used, as illustrated.
THE PENTAGRAMS OF SPIRIT

 

            '                     '             Equilibrium of Actives
          /  \                  /  \
  *      /    \         #      /    \           Name: A H I H (Eheieh)
   \----------------     \----------------
    \ '/ .    . \'        \ '/ .    . \'
     \/  . "  .  \         \/  . "  .  \
I    /\'        ' \        /\'        ' \    B
N      \                     \               A
V       #                     *              N
O                                            I
K           '                     '          S  Equilibrium of Passives
I         /  \                  /  \         H
N        /    \      *         /    \      # I  Name A G L A (Agla).
G   ----------------/     ----------------/  N
      '/ .    . \' /        '/ .    . \' /   G
      /  . "  .  \/         /  . "  .  \/
     / '        '/\        / '        '/\
                /                     /
               #                     *
The Signs of the Portal ("see" Illustrations): Extend the hands in front of you, palms outwards, separate them as if in the act of rending asunder a veil or curtain (actives), and then bring them together as if closing it up again and let them fall to the side (passives).

(The Grade of the "Portal" is particularly attributed to the element of Spirit; it refers to the Sun; the Paths of Samekh, Nun and Ayin, are attributed to this degree.<> See "777" lines 6 and 31 bis).

THE PENTAGRAMS OF FIRE.




I           '                     '          B
N         /  \ #                /  \ *       A  Name: A L H I M
V        /    \ \              /    \ \      N
O   -------------\--      -------------\--   I   (Elohim).
K     '/ .    . \'\         '/ .    . \'\    S
I     /  . "  .  \ \        /  . "  .  \ \   H
N    / '        ' \ *      / '        ' \ #  I
G                                            N
                                             G
{20} The signs of 4 Degree = 7 Square: Raise the arms above the head and join the hands, so that the tips of the fingers and of the thumbs meet, formulating a triangle ("See" illustration).

(The Grade of 4 Degree = 7 Square is particularly attributed to the element Fire; it refers to the planet Venus; the paths of Qof, Tzaddi and Peh are attributed to this degree. For other attributions "see" "777" lines 7 and 31).

The Pentagrams of Water.





I           '                     '          B
N         /  \                  /  \         A
V     #----------*          *---------#      N
O   ----------------      ----------------   I Name: A L (El).
K     '/ .    . \'          '/ .    . \'     S
I     /  . "  .  \          /  . "  .  \     H
N    / '        ' \        / '        ' \    I
G                                            N
                                             G
The signs of 3 Degree = 8 Square: Raise the arms till the elbows are on a level with the shoulders, bring the hands across the chest, touching the thumbs and tips of fingers so as to form a triangle apex downwards. ("See" illustration).

(The Grade of 3 Degree = 8 Square is particularly attributed to the element of Water; it refers to the planet Mercury; the paths of Resh and Shin are attributed to this degree. For other attributions "see" "777", lines 8 and 23).

THE PENTAGRAMS OF AIR.



I           '                     '          B
N         /  \                  /  \         A
V     *----------#          #---------*      N Name: I H V H
O   ----------------      ----------------   I  (Ye-ho-wau).
K     '/ .    . \'          '/ .    . \'     S
I     /  . "  .  \          /  . "  .  \     H
N    / '        ' \        / '        ' \    I
G                                            N
                                             G
The signs of 2 Degree = 9 Square: Stretch both arms upwards and outwards, the elbows bent at right angles, the hands bent back, the palms upwards as if supporting a weight. ("See" illustration). {21}

(The Grade of 2 Degree = 9 Square is particularly attributed to the element Air; it refers to the Moon; the path of Taw is attributed to this degree. For other attributions "see" "777" lines 9 and 11).

THE PENTAGRAMS OF EARTH



I           '                     '          B
N      #  /  \               *  /  \         A
V     /  /    \             /  /    \        N
O   -/--------------      -/--------------   I  Name: A D N I (Adonai).
K   / '/ .    . \'        / '/ .    . \'     S
I  /  /  . "  .  \       /  /  . "  .  \     H
N *  / '        ' \     #  / '        ' \    I
G                                            N
                                             G
The Sign of 1 Degree = 10 Square: Advance the right foot, stretch out the right hand upwards and forwards, the left hand downwards and backwards, the palms open.

(The Grade of 1 Degree = 10 Square is particularly attributed to the element of Earth, "See" "777" lines 10 and 32 bis).

The Lesser Ritual of the Hexagram.

This ritual is to be performed after the "Lesser Ritual of the Pentagram".

(i) Stand upright, feet together, left arm at side, right across body, holding the wand or other weapon upright in the median line. Then face East and say:
(ii) I.N.R.I.
Yod. Nun. Resh. Yod.
Virgo, Isis, Mighty Mother.
Scorpio, Apophis, Destroyer.
Sol, Osiris, Slain and Risen.
Isis, Apophis, Osiris, IAO. {22}
(iii) Extend the arms in the form of a cross, and say: "The Sign of Osiris Slain." ("See" Illustration).
(iv) Raise the right arm to point upwards, keeping the elbow square, and lower the left arm to point downwards, keeping the elbow square, while turning the head over the left shoulder looking down so that the eyes follow the left forearm, and say, "The Sign of the Mourning of Isis." ("See" Illustration).
(v) Raise the arms at an angle of sixty degrees to each other above the head, which is thrown back, and say, "The Sign of Apophis and Typhon." ("See" Illustration).
(vi) Cross the arms on the breast, and bow the head and say, "The Sign of Osiris Risen." ("See" Illustration).
(vii) Extend the arms again as in (iii) and cross them again as in (vi) saying: "L.V.X., Lux, the Light of the Cross".


            /\  #
           /  \  \         (viii)  With the magical weapon trace the
          /    \  \ 1    Hexagram of Fire in the East, saying,
         /  /\  \  *     "Ararita" (Aleph-Resh-Aleph-Resh-Yod-Taw-Aleph).
        ----------          This Word consists of the initials of a
          /    \  #      sentence which means "One is His Beginning:
         /      \  \     One is His Individuality: His Permutation is
        ----------  \ 2  One."
                     *
This hexagram consists of two equilateral triangles, both apices pointed upwards. Begin at the top of the upper {23} triangle and trace it in a dextro-rotary direction. The top of the lower triangle should coincide with the central point of the upper triangle.



            /\ #
        --------\-        (ix)  Trace the Hexagram of Earth in the
      2* \/    \/\      South, saying "ARARITA."  This Hexagram
        \/\    /\ *1    has the apex of the lower triangle pointing
        -\--------      downwards, and it should be capable of
          # \/          inscription in a circle.


            /\ #
           /  \ \
          /    \ \
         /      \ \ 1
        ---------- *
        ----------        (x)  Trace the Hexagram of Air in the
      2* \      /       West, saying "ARARITA."  This Hexagram
        \ \    /        is like that of Earth; but the bases of the
         \ \  /         triangles coincide, forming a diamond.
          \ \/
           #


       ----------
      * \      /
       \ \    /
        \ \  /            (xi)  Trace the hexagram of Water in the
         # \/           North, saying "ARARITA."
           /\ #           This hexagram has the lower triangle placed
          /  \ \        above the upper, so that their apices coincide.
         /    \ \
        /      \ *
       ----------
(xii) Repeat (i-vii)

The Banishing Ritual is identical, save that the direction of the Hexagrams must be reversed. {24}


         "Invoking"                  "Banishing"

            /\ #                    # /\          "The Greater Ritual of"
        --------\-                -/--------          "the Hexagram"
      2* \/    \/\     Saturn     /\/    \/ *2
        \/\    /\ *1            1* /\    /\/        To invoke or banish
        -\--------                --------/-      planets or zodiacal
          # \/                        \/ #        signs.
                                  1                 The Hexagram of
         2* /\                     *--/\--#       Earth alone is used.
        -/--------                ----------      Draw the hexagram,
        /\/    \/ #   Jupiter      \/    \/       beginning from the
       # /\    /\/                 /\    /\       point which is
        --------/-                ----------      attributed to the
            \/ *1                  #--\/--* 2     planet you are dealing
                                                  with.  ("See" "777" col.
         #--/\--* 1                   /\ *2       lxxxiii).
        ----------                --------\-        Thus to invoke
         \/    \/                # \/    \/\      Jupiter begin from the
         /\    /\     Mars        \/\    /\ #     right-hand point of
        ----------                -\--------      the lower triangle,
       2 *--\/--#                  1* \/          dextro-rotary and
                                                  complete; then trace
       4,9.*                         # 6,7.       the upper triangle
     #--  / /\ # --*5,8.  10,3.*--  / /\ * --#    from its left hand
        --------\-                --------\-      point and complete.
  2,11.*/\/    \/\#              #/\/    \/\*2,11.  Trace the
       #\/\    /\/*1,12.Sun 1,12.*\/\    /\/#     astrological sigil
        -\------/-                -\------/-      of the planet in the
 6,7.*--  # \/ * --#           #--  * \/ # --*4,9.centre of your
              3,10.                  5,8.         hexagram.
                                                    For the Zodiac use
         #--/\--*2                    /\ *1       the hexagram of the
        ----------                --------\-      planet which
         \/    \/      Venus     # \/    \/\      rules the {25) sign
         /\    /\                 \/\    /\ #     you require ("777",
        ----------                -\--------      col. cxxxviii); but
        1*--\/--#                  2* \/          draw the astrological
                                                  sigil of the sign,
         1* /\                    2*--/\--#       instead of that of the
        -/--------                ----------      planet.
        /\/    \/ #   Mercury      \/    \/
       # /\    /\/                 /\    /\
        --------/-                ----------
            \/ *2                  #--\/--*1

            /\ #                    # /\
        --------\-                -/--------
      1* \/    \/\     Moon       /\/    \/ *1
        \/\    /\ *2            2* /\    /\/
        -\--------                --------/-
          # \/                        \/ #        {25}
For Caput and Cauda Draconis use the lunar hexagram, with the sigil of Caput Draconis or Cauda Draconis.

To banish, reverse the hexagram.

In all cases use a conjuration first with Ararita, and next with the name of the God corresponding to the planet or sign you are dealing with.

The Hexagrams pertaining to the planets are as in plate on preceding page.

2. These rituals should be practised until the figures drawn appear in flame, in flame so near to physical flame that it would perhaps be visible to the eyes of a bystander, were one present. It is alleged that some persons have attained the power of actually kindling fire by these means. Whether this be so or not, the power is not one to be aimed at.

3. Success in "banishing" is known by a "feeling of cleanliness" in the atmosphere; success in "invoking" by a "feeling of holiness." It is unfortunate that these terms are so vague.

But at least make sure of this: that any imaginary figure or being shall instantly obey the will of the student, when he uses the appropriate figure. In obstinate cases, the form of the appropriate God may be assumed.

4. The banishing rituals should be used at the commencement of any ceremony whatever. Next, the student should use a general invocation, such as the "Preliminary Invocation" in the "Goetia" as well as a special invocation to suit the nature of his working.

5. Success in these verbal invocations is so subtle a {26} matter, and its grades so delicately shaded, that it must be left to the good sense of the student to decide whether or not he should be satisfied with his result.

V

1. Let the student be at rest in one of his prescribed positions, having bathed and robed with the proper decorum. Let the place of working be free from all disturbance, and let the preliminary purifications, banishings and invocations be duly accomplished, and, lastly, let the incense be kindled.

2. Let him imagine his own figure (preferably robed in the proper magical garments and armed with the proper magical weapons) as enveloping his physical body, or standing near to and in front of him.

3. Let him then transfer the seat of his consciousness to that imagined figure; so that it may seem to him that he is seeing with its eyes, and hearing with its ears.

This will usually be the great difficulty of the operation.

4. Let him then cause that imagined figure to rise in the air to a great height above the earth.

5. Let him then stop and look about him. (It is sometimes difficult to open the eyes.)

6. Probably he will see figures approaching him, or become conscious of a landscape.

Let him speak to such figures, and insist upon being answered, using the proper pentagrams and signs, as previously taught.

7. Let him travel about at will, either with or without guidance from such figure or figures. {27}

8. Let him further employ such special invocations as will cause to appear the particular places he may wish to visit.

9. Let him beware of the thousand subtle attacks and deceptions that he will experience, carefully testing the truth of all with whom he speaks.

Thus a hostile being may appear clothed with glory; the appropriate pentagram will in such a case cause him to shrivel or decay.

10. Practice will make the student infinitely wary in these matters.

11. It is usually quite easy to return to the body, but should any difficulty arise, practice (again) will make the imagination fertile. For example, one may create in thought a chariot of fire with white horses, and command the charioteer to drive earthwards.

It might be dangerous to go too far, or to stay too long; for fatigue must be avoided.

The danger spoken of is that of fainting, or of obsession, or of loss of memory or other mental faculty.

12. Finally, let the student cause his imagined body in which he supposes himself to have been travelling to coincide with the physical, tightening his muscles, drawing in his breath, and putting his forefinger to his lips. Then let him "awake" by a well-defined act of will, and soberly and accurately record his experiences.

It may be added that this apparently complicated experiment is perfectly easy to perform. It is best to learn by "travelling" with a person already experienced in the matter. Two or three experiments will suffice to render the student confident and even expert. See also "The Seer", pp. 295-333.

VI

1. The previous experiment has little value, and leads to few results of importance. But it is susceptible of a development which merges into a form of Dharana --- concentration --- and as such may lead to the very highest ends. The principal use of the practice in the last chapter is to familiarise the student with every kind of obstacle and every kind of delusion, so that he may be perfect master of every idea that may arise in his brain, to dismiss it, to transmute it, to cause it instantly to obey his will.

2. Let him then begin exactly as before, but with the most intense solemnity and determination.

3. Let him be very careful to cause his imaginary body to rise in a line exactly perpendicular to the earth's tangent at the point where his physical body is situated (or to put it more simply, straight upwards).

4. Instead of stopping, let him continue to rise until fatigue almost overcomes him. If he should find that he has stopped without willing to do so, and that figures appear, let him at all costs rise above them.

Yea, though his very life tremble on his lips, let him force his way upward and onward! 5. Let him continue in this so long as the breath of life is in him. Whatever threatens, whatever allures, though it were Typhon and all his hosts loosed from the pit and leagued against him, though it were from the very Throne of God Himself that a Voice issues bidding him stay and be content, let him struggle on, ever on.

6. At last there must come a moment when his whole {29} being is swallowed up in fatigue, overwhelmed by its own inertia.*

* This in case of failure. The results of success are so many and wonderful that no effort is here made to describe them. They are classified, tentatively, in the "Herb Dangerious," Part II., "infra".

Let him sink (when no longer can he strive, though his tongue by bitten through with the effort and the blood gush from his nostrils) into the blackness of unconsciousness; and then, on coming to himself, let him write down soberly and accurately a record of all that hath occurred, yea a record of all that hath occurred.

EXPLICIT

[A book of Elementary Invocations is in preparation, and will be issued in Number 3.]

{30}

Liber Liberi vel Lapdis Lazuli
Adumbratio Kabbalae Aegyptiorum

Sub Figura VII

Being the Voluntary Emancipation of a certain Exempt Adept from his Adeptship. These are the Birth-Words of a Master of the Temple.
A...A...
Publication in Class A.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A... A...


PROLOGUE OF THE UNBORN

Into my loneliness comes -
The sound of a flute in dim groves that haunt the uttermost hills.
Even from the brave river they reach to the edge of the wilderness.
And I behold Pan.
The snows are eternal above, above -
And their perfume smokes upward into the nostrils of the stars.
But what have I to do with these?
To me only the distant flute, the abiding vision of Pan.
On all sides Pan to the eye, to the ear;
The perfume of Pan pervading, the taste of him utterly filling my mouth, so that the tongue breaks forth into a weird and monstrous speech.
The embrace of him intense on every centre of pain and pleasure.
The sixth interior sense aflame with the inmost self of Him,
Myself flung down the precipice of being
Even to the abyss, annihilation.
An end to loneliness, as to all.
Pan! Pan! Io Pan! Io Pan!
I

My God, how I love Thee!
With the vehement appetite of a beast I hunt Thee through the Universe.
Thou art standing as it were upon a pinnacle at the edge of some fortified city. I am a white bird, and perch upon Thee.
Thou art My Lover: I see Thee as a nymph with her white limbs stretched by the spring.
She lies upon the moss; there is none other but she:
Art Thou not Pan?
I am He. Speak not, O my God! Let the work be accomplished in silence.
Let my cry of pain be crystallized into a little white fawn to run away into the forest!
Thou art a centaur, O my God, from the violet-blossoms that crown Thee to the hoofs of the horse.
Thou art harder than tempered steel; there is no diamond beside Thee.
Did I not yield this body and soul?
I woo thee with a dagger drawn across my throat.
Let the spout of blood quench Thy blood-thirst, O my God!
Thou art a little white rabbit in the burrow Night.
I am greater than the fox and the hole.
Give me Thy kisses, O Lord God!
The lightning came and licked up the little flock of sheep.
There is a tongue and a flame; I see that trident walking over the sea.
A phoenix hath it for its head; below are two prongs. They spear the wicked.
I will spear Thee, O Thou little grey god, unless Thou beware!
From the grey to the gold; from the gold to that which is beyond the gold of Ophir.
My God! but I love Thee!
Why hast Thou whispered so ambiguous things? Wast Thou afraid, O goat-hoofed One, O horned One, O pillar of lightning?
From the lightning fall pearls; from the pearls black specks of nothing.
I based all on one, one on naught.
Afloat in the aether, O my God, my God!
O Thou great hooded sun of glory, cut off these eyelids!
Nature shall die out; she hideth me, closing mine eyelids with fear, she hideth me from My destruction, O Thou open eye.
O ever-weeping One!
Not Isis my mother, nor Osiris my self; but the incestuous Horus given over to Typhon, so may I be!
There thought; and thought is evil.
Pan! Pan! Io Pan! it is enough.
Fall not into death, O my soul! Think that death is the bed into which you are falling!
O how I love Thee, O my God! Especially is there a vehement parallel light from infinity, vilely diffracted in the haze of this mind.
I love Thee. I love Thee. I love Thee.
Thou art a beautiful thing whiter than a woman in the column of this vibration.
I shoot up vertically like an arrow, and become that Above.
But it is death, and the flame of the pyre.
Ascend in the flame of the pyre, O my soul! Thy God is like the cold emptiness of the utmost heaven, into which thou radiatest thy little light.
When Thou shall know me, O empty God, my flame shall utterly expire in Thy great N. O. X.
What shalt Thou be, my God, when I have ceased to love Thee?
A worm, a nothing, a niddering knave!
But Oh! I love Thee.
I have thrown a million flowers from the basket of the Beyond at Thy feet, I have anointed Thee and Thy Staff with oil and blood and kisses.
I have kindled Thy marble into life - ay! into death.
I have been smitten with the reek of Thy mouth, that drinketh never wine but life.
How the dew of the Universe whitens the lips!
Ah! trickling flow of the stars of the mother Supernal, begone!
I Am She that should come, the Virgin of all men.
I am a boy before Thee, O Thou satyr God.
Thou wilt inflict the punishment of pleasure - Now! Now! Now!
Io Pan! Io Pan! I love Thee. I love Thee.
O my God, spare me!
Now! It is done! Death.
I cried aloud the word - and it was a mighty spell to bind the Invisible, an enchantment to unbind the bound; yea, to unbind the bound.
II

O my God! use Thou me again, alway. For ever! For ever!
That which came fire from Thee cometh water from me; let therefore Thy Spirit lay hold on me, so that my right hand loose the lightning.
Travelling through space, I saw the onrush of two galaxies, butting each other and goring like bulls upon earth. I was afraid.
Thus they ceased fight, and turned upon me, and I was sorely crushed and torn.
I had rather have been trampled by the World-Elephant.
O my God! Thou art my little pet tortoise!
Yet Thou sustainest the World-Elephant.
I creep under Thy carapace, like a lover into the bed of his beautiful; I creep in, and sit in Thine heart, as cubby and cosy as may be.
Thou shelterest me, that I hear not the trumpeting of that World-Elephant.
Thou art not worth an obol in the agora; yet Thou art not to be bought at the ransom of the whole Universe.
Thou art like a beautiful Nubian slave leaning her naked purple against the green pillars of marble that are above the bath.
Wine jets from her black nipples.
I drank wine awhile agone in the house of Pertinax. The cup-boy favoured me, and gave me of the right sweet Chian.
There was a Doric boy, skilled in feats of strength, an athlete. The full moon fled away angrily down the wrack. Ah! but we laughed.
I was pernicious drunk, O my God! Yet Pertinax brought me to the bridal.
I had a crown of thorns for all my dower.
Thou art like a goat's horn from Astor, O Thou God of mine, gnarl'd and crook'd and devilish strong.
Colder than all the ice of all the glaciers of the Naked Mountain was the wine it poured for me.
A wild country and a waning moon Clouds scudding over the sky. A circuit of pines, and of tall yews beyond. Thou in the midst!
O all ye toads and cats, rejoice! Ye slimy things, come hither!
Dance, dance to the Lord our God!
He is he! He is he! He is he!
Why should I go on?
Why? Why? comes the sudden cackle of a million imps of hell.
And the laughter runs.
But sickens not the Universe; but shakes not the stars.
God! how I love Thee!
I am walking in an asylum; all the men and women about me are insane.
Oh madness! madness! madness! desirable art thou!
But I love Thee, O God!
These men and women rave and howl; they froth out folly.
I begin to be afraid. I have no check; I am alone. Alone. Alone.
Think, O God, how I am happy in Thy love.
O marble Pan! O false leering face! I love Thy dark kisses, bloody and stinking! O marble Pan! Thy kisses are like sunlight on the blue Aegean; their blood is the blood of the sunset over Athens; their stink is like a garden of Roses of Macedonia.
I dreamt of sunset and roses and vines; Thou wast there, O my God, Thou didst habit Thyself as an Athenian courtesan, and I loved Thee.
Thou art no dream, O Thou too beautiful alike for sleep and waking!
I disperse the insane folk of the earth; I walk alone with my little puppets in the garden.
I am Gargantuan great; yon galaxy is but the smoke-ring of mine incense.
Burn Thou strange herbs, O God!
Brew me a magic liquor, boys, with your glances!
The very soul is drunken.
Thou art drunken, O my God, upon my kisses.
The Universe reels; Thou hast looked upon it.
Twice, and all is done.
Come, O my God, and let us embrace!
Lazily, hungrily, ardently, patiently; so will I work.
There shall be an End.
O God! O God!
I am a fool to love Thee; Thou art cruel, Thou withholdest Thyself.
Come to me now! I love Thee! I love Thee!
O my darling, my darling - Kiss me! Kiss me! Ah! but again.
Sleep, take me! Death, take me! This life is too full; it pains, it slays, it suffices.
Let me go back into the world; yea, back into the world.
III

I was the priest of Ammon-Ra in the temple of Ammon-Ra at Thebai.
But Bacchus came singing with his troops of vine-clad girls, of girls in dark mantles; and Bacchus in the midst like a fawn!
God! how I ran out in my rage and scattered the chorus!
But in my temple stood Bacchus as the priest of Ammon-Ra.
Therefore I went wildly with the girls into Abyssinia; and there we abode and rejoiced.
Exceedingly; yea, in good sooth!
I will eat the ripe and the unripe fruit for the glory of Bacchus.
Terraces of ilex, and tiers of onyx and opal and sardonyx leading up to the cool green porch of malachite.
Within is a crystal shell, shaped like an oyster - O glory of Priapus! O beatitude of the Great Goddess!
Therein is a pearl.
O Pearl! thou hast come from the majesty of dread Ammon-Ra.
Then I the priest beheld a steady glitter in the heart of the pearl.
So bright we could not look! But behold! a blood-red rose upon a rood of glowing gold!
So I adored the God. Bacchus! thou art the lover of my God!
I who was priest of Ammon-Ra, who saw the Nile flow by for many moons, for many, many moons, am the young fawn of the grey land.
I will set up my dance in your conventicles, and my secret loves shall be sweet among you.
Thou shalt have a lover among the lords of the grey land.
This shall he bring unto thee, without which all is in vain; a man's life spilt for thy love upon My Altars.
Amen.
Let it be soon, O God, my God! I ache for Thee, I wander very lonely among the mad folk, in the grey land of desolation.
Thou shalt set up the abominable lonely Thing of wickedness. Oh joy! to lay that corner-stone!
It shall stand erect upon the high mountain; only my God shall commune with it.
I will build it of a single ruby; it shall be seen from afar off.
Come! let us irritate the vessels of the earth: they shall distil strange wine.
It grows under my hand: it shall cover the whole heaven.
Thou art behind me: I scream with a mad joy.
Then said Ithuriel the strong; let Us also worship this invisible marvel!
So did they, and the archangels swept over the heaven.
Strange and mystic, like a yellow priest invoking mighty flights of great grey birds from the North, so do I stand and invoke Thee!
Let them obscure not the sun with their wings and their clamour!
Take away form and its following!
I am still.
Thou art like an osprey among the rice, I am the great red pelican in the sunset waters.
I am like a black eunuch; and Thou art the scimitar. I smite off the head of the light one, the breaker of bread and salt.
Yea! I smite - and the blood makes as it were a sunset on the lapis lazuli of the King's Bedchamber.
I smite! The whole world is broken up into a mighty wind, and a voice cries aloud in a tongue that men cannot speak.
I know that awful sound of primal joy; let us follow on the wings of the gale even unto the holy house of Hathor; let us offer the five jewels of the cow upon her altar!
Again the inhuman voice!
I rear my Titan bulk into the teeth of the gale, and I smite and prevail, and swing me out over the sea.
There is a strange pale God, a god of pain and deadly wickedness.
My own soul bites into itself, like a scorpion ringed with fire.
That pallid God with face averted, that God of subtlety and laughter, that young Doric God, him will I serve.
For the end thereof is torment unspeakable.
Better the loneliness of the great grey sea!
But ill befall the folk of the grey land, my God!
Let me smother them with my roses!
Oh Thou delicious God, smile sinister!
I pluck Thee, O my God, like a purple plum upon a sunny tree. How Thou dost melt in my mouth, Thou consecrated sugar of the Stars!
The world is all grey before mine eyes; it is like an old worn wine-skin.
All the wine of it is on these lips.
Thou hast begotten me upon a marble Statue, O my God!
The body is icy cold with the coldness of a million moons; it is harder than the adamant of eternity. How shall I come forth into the light?
Thou art He, O God! O my darling! my child! my plaything! Thou art like a cluster of maidens, like a multitude of swans upon the lake.
I feel the essence of softness.
I am hard and strong and male; but come Thou! I shall be soft and weak and feminine.
Thou shalt crush me in the wine-press of Thy love. My blood shall stain Thy fiery feet with litanies of Love in Anguish.
There shall be a new flower in the fields, a new vintage in the vineyards.
The bees shall gather a new honey; the poets shall sing a new song.
I shall gain the Pain of the Goat for my prize; and the God that sitteth upon the shoulders of Time shall drowse.
Then shall all this which is written be accomplished: yea, it shall be accomplished.
IV

I am like a maiden bathing in a clear pool of fresh water.
O my God! I see Thee dark and desirable, rising through the water as a golden smoke.
Thou art altogether golden, the hair and the eyebrows and the brilliant face; even into the finger-tips and toe-tips Thou art one rosy dream of gold.
Deep into Thine eyes that are golden my soul leaps, like an archangel menacing the sun.
My sword passes through and through Thee; crystalline moons ooze out of Thy beautiful body that is hidden behind the ovals of Thine eyes.
Deeper, ever deeper. I fall, even as the whole Universe falls down the abyss of Years.
For Eternity calls; the Overworld calls; the world of the Word is awaiting us.
Be done with speech, O God! Fasten the fangs of the hound Eternity in this my throat!
I am like a wounded bird flapping in circles.
Who knows where I shall fall?
O blessed One! O God! O my devourer!
Let me fall, fall down, fall away, afar, alone!
Let me fall!
Nor is there any rest, Sweet Heart, save in the cradle of royal Bacchus, the thigh of the most Holy One.
There rest, under the canopy of night.
Uranus chid Eros; Marsyas chid Olympas; I chid my beautiful lover with his sunray mane; shall I not sing?
Shall not mine incantations bring around me the wonderful company of the wood-gods, their bodies glistening with the ointment of moonlight and honey and myrrh?
Worshipful are ye, O my lovers; let us forward to the dimmest hollow!
There we will feast upon mandrake and upon moly!
There the lovely One shall spread us His holy banquet. In the brown cakes of corn we shall taste the food of the world, and be strong.
In the ruddy and awful cup of death we shall drink the blood of the world, and be drunken!
Ohe! the song to Iao, the song to Iao!
Come, let us sing to thee, Iacchus invisible, Iacchus triumphant, Iacchus indicible!
Iacchus, O Iacchus, O Iacchus, be near us!
Then was the countenance of all time darkened, and the true light shone forth.
There was also a certain cry in an unknown tongue, whose stridency troubled the still waters of my soul, so that my mind and my body were healed of their disease, self-knowledge.
Yea, an angel troubled the waters.
This was the cry of Him: IIIOOShBThIO-IIIIAMAMThIBI-II.
Nor did I sing this for a thousand times a night for a thousand nights before Thou camest, O my flaming God, and pierced me with Thy spear. Thy scarlet robe unfolded the whole heavens, so that the Gods said: All is burning: it is the end.
Also Thou didst set Thy lips to the wound and suck out a million eggs. And Thy mother sat upon them, and lo! stars and stars and ultimate Things whereof stars are the atoms.
Then I perceived Thee, O my God, sitting like a white cat upon the trellis-work of the arbour; and the hum of the spinning worlds was but Thy pleasure.
O white cat, the sparks fly from Thy fur! Thou dost crackle with splitting the worlds.
I have seen more of Thee in the white cat than I saw in the Vision of Aeons.
In the boat of Ra did I travel, but I never found upon the visible Universe any being like unto Thee!
Thou wast like a winged white horse, and I raced Thee through eternity against the Lord of the Gods.
So still we race!
Thou wast like a flake of snow falling in the pine-clad woods.
In a moment Thou wast lost in a wilderness of the like and the unlike.
But I beheld the beautiful God at the back of the blizzard - and Thou wast He!
Also I read in a great book.
On ancient skin was written in letters of gold: Verbum fit Verbum.
Also Vitriol and the hierophant's name V.V.V.V.V.
All this wheeled in fire, in star-fire, rare and far and utterly lonely - even as Thou and I, O desolate soul my God!
Yea, and the writing
Two rows of cryptic glyphs, sixteen in total. It is well.
This is the voice which shook the earth.
Eight times he cried aloud, and by eight and by eight shall I count Thy favours, Oh Thou Elevenfold God 418!
Yea, and by many more; by the ten in the twenty-two directions; even as the perpendicular of the Pyramid - so shall Thy favours be.
If I number them, they are One.
Excellent is Thy love, Oh Lord! Thou art revealed by the darkness, and he who gropeth in the horror of the groves shall haply catch Thee, even as a snake that seizeth on a little singing-bird.
I have caught Thee, O my soft thrush; I am like a hawk of mother-of-emerald; I catch Thee by instinct, though my eyes fail from Thy glory.
Yet they are but foolish folk yonder. I see them on the yellow sand, all clad in Tyrian purple.
They draw their shining God unto the land in nets; they build a fire to the Lord of Fire, and cry unhallowed words, even the dreadful curse Amri maratza, maratza, atman deona lastadza maratza maritza - maran!
Then do they cook the shining god, and gulp him whole.
These are evil folk, O beautiful boy! let us pass on to the Otherworld.
Let us make ourselves into a pleasant bait, into a seductive shape!
I will be like a splendid naked woman with ivory breasts and golden nipples; my whole body shall be like the milk of the stars. I will be lustrous and Greek, a courtesan of Delos, of the unstable Isle.
Thou shalt be like a little red worm on a hook.
But thou and I will catch our fish alike.
Then wilt thou be a shining fish with golden back and silver belly: I will be like a violent beautiful man, stronger than two score bulls, a man of the West bearing a great sack of precious jewels upon a staff that is greater than the axis of the all.
And the fish shall be sacrificed to Thee and the strong man crucified for Me, and Thou and I will kiss, and atone for the wrong of the Beginning; yea, for the wrong of the beginning.
V

O my beautiful God! I swim in Thy heart like a trout in the mountain torrent.
I leap from pool to pool in my joy; I am goodly with brown and gold and silver.
Why, I am lovelier than the russet autumn woods at the first snowfall.
And the crystal cave of my thought is lovelier than I.
Only one fish-hook can draw me out; it is a woman kneeling by the bank of the stream. It is she that pours the bright dew over herself, and into the sand so that the river gushes forth.
There is a bird on yonder myrtle; only the song of that bird can draw me out of the pool of Thy heart, O my God!
Who is this Neapolitan boy that laughs in his happiness? His lover is the mighty crater of the Mountain of Fire. I saw his charred limbs borne down the slopes in a stealthy tongue of liquid stone.
And Oh! the chirp of the cicada!
I remember the days when I was cacique in Mexico.
O my God, wast Thou then as now my beautiful lover?
Was my boyhood then as now Thy toy, Thy joy?
Verily, I remember those iron days.
I remember how we drenched the bitter lakes with our torrent of gold; how we sank the treasurable image in the crater of Citlaltepetl.
How the good flame lifted us even unto the lowlands, setting us down in the impenetrable forest.
Yea, Thou wast a strange scarlet bird with a bill of gold. I was Thy mate in the forests of the lowland; and ever we heard from afar the shrill chant of mutilated priests and the insane clamour of the Sacrifice of Maidens.
There was a weird winged God that told us of his wisdom.
We attained to be starry grains of gold dust in the sands of a slow river.
Yea, and that river was the river of space and time also.
We parted thence; ever to the smaller, ever to the greater, until now, O sweet God, we are ourselves, the same.
O God of mine, Thou art like a little white goat with lightning in his horns!
I love Thee, I love Thee.
Every breath, every word, every thought, every deed is an act of love with Thee.
The beat of my heart is the pendulum of love.
The songs of me are the soft sighs:
The thoughts of me are very rapture:
And my deeds are the myriads of Thy children, the stars and the atoms.
Let there be nothing!
Let all things drop into this ocean of love!
Be this devotion a potent spell to exorcise the demons of the Five!
Ah God, all is gone! Thou dost consummate Thy rapture. Falutli! Falutli!
There is a solemnity of the silence. There is no more voice at all.
So shall it be unto the end. We who were dust shall never fall away into the dust.
So shall it be.
Then, O my God, the breath of the Garden of Spices. All these have a savour averse.
The cone is cut with an infinite ray; the curve of hyperbolic life springs into being.
Farther and farther we float; yet we are still. It is the chain of systems that is falling away from us.
First falls the silly world; the world of the old grey land.
Falls it unthinkably far, with its sorrowful bearded face presiding over it; it fades to silence and woe.
We to silence and bliss, and the face is the laughing face of Eros.
Smiling we greet him with the secret signs.
He leads us into the Inverted Palace.
There is the Heart of Blood, a pyramid reaching its apex down beyond the Wrong of the Beginning.
Bury me unto Thy Glory, O beloved, O princely lover of this harlot maiden, within the Secretest Chamber of the Palace!
It is done quickly; yea, the seal is set upon the vault.
There is one that shall avail to open it.
Nor by memory, nor by imagination, nor by prayer, nor by fasting, nor by scourging, nor by drugs, nor by ritual, nor by meditation; only by passive love shall he avail.
He shall await the sword of the Beloved and bare his throat for the stroke.
Then shall his blood leap out and write me runes in the sky; yea, write me runes in the sky.
VI

Thou wast a priestess, O my God, among the Druids; and we knew the powers of the oak.
We made us a temple of stones in the shape of the Universe, even as thou didst wear openly and I concealed.
There we performed many wonderful things by midnight.
By the waning moon did we work.
Over the plain came the atrocious cry of wolves.
We answered; we hunted with the pack.
We came even unto the new Chapel and Thou didst bear away the Holy Graal beneath Thy Druid vestments.
Secretly and by stealth did we drink of the informing sacrament.
Then a terrible disease seized upon the folk of the grey land; and we rejoiced.
O my God, disguise Thy glory!
Come as a thief, and let us steal away the Sacraments!
In our groves, in our cloistral cells, in our honeycomb of happiness, let us drink, let us drink!
It is the wine that tinges everything with the true tincture of infallible gold.
There are deep secrets in these songs. It is not enough to hear the bird; to enjoy song he must be the bird.
I am the bird, and Thou art my song, O my glorious galloping God!
Thou reinest in the stars; thou drivest the constellations seven abreast through the circus of Nothingness.
Thou Gladiator God!
I play upon mine harp; Thou fightest the beasts and the flames.
Thou takest Thy joy in the music, and I in the fighting.
Thou and I are beloved of the Emperor.
See! he has summoned us to the Imperial dais. The night falls; it is a great orgy of worship and bliss.
The night falls like a spangled cloak from the shoulders of a prince upon a slave.
He rises a free man!
Cast thou, O prophet, the cloak upon these slaves!
A great night, and scarce fires therein; but freedom for the slave that its glory shall encompass.
So also I went down into the great sad city.
There dead Messalina bartered her crown for poison from the dead Locusta; there stood Caligula, and smote the seas of forgetfulness.
Who wast Thou, O Caesar, that Thou knewest God in an horse?
For lo! we beheld the White Horse of the Saxon engraven upon the earth; and we beheld the Horses of the Sea that flame about the old grey land, and the foam from their nostrils enlightens us!
Ah! but I love thee, God!
Thou art like a moon upon the ice-world.
Thou art like the dawn of the utmost snows upon the burnt-up flats of the tiger's land.
By silence and by speech do I worship Thee.
But all is in vain.
Only Thy silence and Thy speech that worship me avail.
Wail, O ye folk of the grey land, for we have drunk your wine, and left ye but the bitter dregs.
Yet from these we will distil ye a liquor beyond the nectar of the Gods.
There is value in our tincture for a world of Spice and gold.
For our red powder of projection is beyond all possibilities.
There are few men; there are enough.
We shall be full of cup-bearers, and the wine is not stinted.
O dear my God! what a feast Thou hast provided.
Behold the lights and the flowers and the maidens!
Taste of the wines and the cakes and the splendid meats!
Breathe in the perfumes and the clouds of little gods like wood-nymphs that inhabit the nostrils!
Feel with your whole body the glorious smoothness of the marble coolth and the generous warmth of the sun and the slaves!
Let the Invisible inform all the devouring Light of its disruptive vigour!
Yea! all the world is split apart, as an old grey tree by the lightning!
Come, O ye gods, and let us feast.
Thou, O my darling, O my ceaseless Sparrow-God, my delight, my desire, my deceiver, come Thou and chirp at my right hand!
This was the tale of the memory of Al A'in the priest; yea, of Al A'in the priest.
VII

By the burning of the incense was the Word revealed, and by the distant drug.
O meal and honey and oil! O beautiful flag of the moon, that she hangs out in the centre of bliss!
These loosen the swathings of the corpse; these unbind the feet of Osiris, so that the flaming God may rage through the firmament with his fantastic spear.
But of pure black marble is the sorry statue, and the changeless pain of the eyes is bitter to the blind.
We understand the rapture of that shaken marble, torn by the throes of the crowned child, the golden rod of the golden God.
We know why all is hidden in the stone, within the coffin, within the mighty sepulchre, and we too answer Olalam! Imal! Tutulu! as it is written in the ancient book.
Three words of that book are as life to a new aeon; no god has read the whole.
But thou and I, O God, have written it page by page.
Ours is the elevenfold reading of the Elevenfold word.
These seven letters together make seven diverse words; each word is divine, and seven sentences are hidden therein.
Thou art the Word, O my darling, my lord, my master!
O come to me, mix the fire and the water, all shall dissolve.
I await Thee in sleeping, in waking. I invoke Thee no more; for Thou art in me, O Thou who hast made me a beautiful instrument tuned to Thy rapture.
Yet art Thou ever apart, even as I.
I remember a certain holy day in the dusk of the year, in the dusk of the Equinox of Osiris, when first I beheld Thee visibly; when first the dreadful issue was fought out; when the Ibis-headed One charmed away the strife.
I remember Thy first kiss, even as a maiden should. Nor in the dark byways was there another: Thy kisses abide.
There is none other beside Thee in the whole Universe of Love.
My God, I love Thee, O Thou goat with gilded horns!
Thou beautiful bull of Apis! Thou beautiful serpent of Apep! Thou beautiful child of the Pregnant Goddess!
Thou hast stirred in Thy sleep, O ancient sorrow of years! Thou hast raised Thine head to strike, and all is dissolved into the Abyss of Glory.
An end to the letters of the words! An end to the sevenfold speech.
Resolve me the wonder of it all into the figure of a gaunt swift camel striding over the sand.
Lonely is he, and abominable; yet hath he gained the crown.
Oh rejoice! rejoice!
My God! O my God! I am but a speck in the star-dust of ages; I am the Master of the Secret of Things.
I am the Revealer and the Preparer. Mine is the Sword - and the Mitre and the Winged Wand!
I am the Initiator and the Destroyer. Mine is the Globe - and the Bennu bird and the Lotus of Isis my daughter!
I am the One beyond these all; and I bear the symbols of the mighty darkness.
There shall be a sigil as of a vast black brooding ocean of death and the central blaze of darkness, radiating its night upon all.
It shall swallow up that lesser darkness.
But in that profound who shall answer: What is?
Not I.
Not Thou, O God!
Come, let us no more reason together; let us enjoy! Let us be ourselves, silent, unique, apart.
O lonely woods of the world! In what recesses will ye hide our love?
The forest of the spears of the Most High is called Night, and Hades, and the Day of Wrath; but I am His captain, and I bear His cup.
Fear me not with my spearmen! They shall slay the demons with their petty prongs. Ye shall be free.
Ah, slaves! ye will not - ye know not how to will.
Yet the music of my spears shall be a song of freedom.
A great bird shall sweep from the abyss of Joy, and bear ye away to be my cup-bearers.
Come, O my God, in one last rapture let us attain to the Union with the Many!
In the silence of Things, in the Night of Forces, beyond the accursed domain of the Three, let us enjoy our love!
My darling! My darling! away, away beyond the Assembly and the Law and the Enlightenment unto an Anarchy of solitude and Darkness!
For even thus must we veil the brilliance of our Self.
My darling! My darling!
O my God, but the love in Me bursts over the bonds of Space and Time; my love is spilt among them that love not love.
My wine is poured out for them that never tasted wine.
The fumes thereof shall intoxicate them and the vigour of my love shall breed mighty children from their maidens.
Yea! without draught, without embrace: - and the Voice answered Yea! these things shall be.
Then I sought a Word for Myself; nay, for myself.
And the Word came: O Thou! it is well. Heed naught! I love Thee! I love Thee!
Therefore had I faith unto the end of all; yea, unto the end of all.
Copyright (c) Ordo Templi Orientis

Liber VIII

A.·. A.·. Publication in Class D

And thus shall he do who will attain unto the mystery of the knowledge and conversation of his Holy Guardian Angel:

First, let him prepare a chamber, of which the walls and the roof shall be white, and the floor shall be covered with a carpet of black squares and white, and the border thereof shall be blue and gold.

And if it be in a town, the room shall have no window, and if it be in the country, then it is better if the window be in the roof. Or, if it be possible, let this invocation be performed in a temple prepared for the ritual of passing through the Tuat.

From the roof he shall hang a lamp, wherein is a red glass, to burn olive oil. And this lamp shall he cleanse and make ready after the prayer of sunset, and beneath the lamp shall be an altar, foursquare, & the height shall be thrice half of the breadth or double the breadth.

And upon the altar shall be a censor, hemispherical, supported upon three legs, of silver, and within it an hemisphere of copper, and upon the top a grating of gilded silver, and thereupon shall he burn incense made of four parts of olibanum and two parts of stacte, and one part of lignum aloes, or of cedar, or of sandal. And this is enough.

And he shall also keep ready in a flask of crystal within the altar, holy anointing oil made of myrrh and cinnamon and galangal.

And even if he be of higher rank than a Probationer, he shall yet wear the robe of the Probationer, for the star of flame showeth forth Ra Hoor Khuit openly upon the breast, and secretly the blue triangle that descendeth is Nuit, and the red triangle that ascendeth is Hadit. And I am the golden Tau in the midst of their marriage. Also, if he choose, he may instead wear a close-fitting robe of shot silk, purple and green, and upon it a cloak without sleeves, of bright blue, covered with golden sequins, and scarlet within.

And he shall make himself a wand of almond wood or of hazel cut by his own hands at dawn at the Equinox, or at the Solstice, or on the day of Corpus Christi, or on one of the feast-days that are appointed in "The Book of the Law".

And he shall engrave with his own hand upon the plate of gold the Holy Sevenfold Table, or the Holy Twelvefold Table, or some particular device. And it shall be foursquare within a circle, and the circle shall be winged, and he shall attach it about his forehead by a ribbon of blue silk.

Moreover, he shall wear a fillet of laurel or rose or ivy or rue, and every day, after the prayer of sunrise, he shall burn it in the fire of the censor.

Now he shall pray thrice daily, about sunset, and at midnight, and at sunrise. And if he be able, he shall pray also four times between sunrise and sunset.

The prayer shall last for the space of an hour, at the least, and he shall seek ever to extend it, and to inflame himself in praying. Thus shall he invoke his Holy Guardian Angel for eleven weeks, and in any case he shall pray seven times daily during the last week of the eleven weeks.

And during all this time he shall have composed an invocation suitable, with such wisdom and understanding as may be given him from the Crown, and this shall he write in letters of gold upon the top of the altar.

For the top of the altar shall be of white wood, well polished, and in the centre thereof he shall have placed a triangle of oak-wood, painted with scarlet, and upon this triangle the three legs of the censor shall stand.

Moreover, he shall copy his invocation upon a sheet of pure white vellum, with Indian ink, and he shall illuminate it according to his fancy and imagination, that shall be informed by beauty.

And on the first day of the twelfth week he shall enter the chamber at sunrise, and he shall make his prayer, having first burnt the conjuration that he had made upon the vellum in the fire of the lamp.

Then, at his prayer, shall the chamber be filled with light insufferable for splendour, and a perfume intolerable for sweetness. And his Holy Guardian Angel shall appear unto him, yea, his Holy Guardian Angel shall appear unto him, so that he shall be wrapt away into the Mystery of Holiness.

All that day shall he remain in the enjoyment of the knowledge and conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.

And for three days after he shall remain from sunrise unto sunset in the temple, and he shall obey the counsel that his Angel shall have given unto him, and he shall suffer those things that are appointed.

And for ten days thereafter shall he withdraw himself as shall have been taught unto him from the fullness of that communion, for he must harmonize the world that is within with the world that is without.

And at the end of the ninety-one days he shall return into the world, and there shall he perform that work to which the Angel shall have appointed him.

And more than this it is not necessary to say, for his Angel shall have entreated him kindly, and showed him in what manner he may be most perfectly involved. And unto him that hath this Master there is nothing else that he needeth, so long as he continue in the knowledge and conversation of the Angel, so that he shall come at last into the City of the Pyramids.

I

It is absolutely necessary that all experiments should be recorded in detail during, or immediately after, their performance.
It is highly important to note the physical and mental condition of the experimenter or experimenters.
The time and place of all experiments must be noted; also the state of the weather, and generally all conditions which might conceivably have any result upon the experiment either as adjuvants to or causes of the result, or as inhibiting it, or as sources of error.
The A.·. A.·. will not take official notice of any experiments which are not thus properly recorded.
It is not necessary at this stage for us to declare fully the ultimate end of our researches; nor indeed would it be understood by those who have not become proficient in these elementary courses.
The experimenter is encouraged to use his own intelligence, and not to rely upon any other person or persons, however distinguished, even among ourselves.
The written record should be intelligently (WEH NOTE: EQUINOX I, 1 has "intelligibly".) prepared so that others may benefit from its study.
The Book John St. John published in the first number of the "Equinox" is an example of this kind of record by a very advanced student. It is not as simply written as we could wish, but will show the method.
The more scientific the record is, the better. Yet the emotions should be noted, as being some of the conditions.
Let then the record be written with sincerity and care; thus with practice it will be found more and more to approximate to the ideal.
II
Physical clairvoyance

Take a pack of (78) Tarot playing cards. Shuffle; cut. Draw one card. Without looking at it, try to name it. Write down the card you name, and the actual card. Repeat, and tabulate results.
This experiment is probably easier with an old genuine pack of Tarot cards, preferably a pack used for divination by some one who really understood the matter.
Remember that one should expect to name the right card once in 78 times. Also be careful to exclude all possibilities of obtaining the knowledge through the ordinary senses of sight and touch, or even smell.
There was once a man whose fingertips were so sensitive that he could feel the shape and position of the pips and so judge the card correctly.
It is better to try first the easier form of the experiment, by guessing only the suit.
Remember that in 78 experiments you should obtain 22 trumps and 14 of each other suit; so that without any clairvoyance at all, you can guess right twice in 7 times (roughly) by calling trumps each time.
Note that some cards are harmonious.
Thus it would not be a bad error to call the five of Swords ("The Lord of Defeat") instead of the ten of Swords ("The Lord of Ruin"). But to call the Lord of Love (2 Cups) for the Lord of Strife (5 Wands) would show that you were getting nothing right.
Similarly a card ruled by Mars would be harmonious with a 5, a card of Gemini with "The Lovers".
These harmonies must be thoroughly learnt, according to the numerous tables given in 777.
As you progress you will find that you are able to distinguish the suit correctly three times in four and that very few indeed inharmonious errors occur, while in 78 experiments you are able to name the card aright as many as 15 or 20 times.
When you have reached this stage, you may be admitted for examination; and in the event of your passing you will be given more complex and difficult exercises.
III
Asana - Posture

You must learn to sit perfectly still with every muscle tense for long periods.
You must wear no garments that interfere with the posture in any of these experiments.
The first position: (The God). Sit in a chair; head up, back straight, knees together, hands on knees, eyes closed.
The second position: (The Dragon). Kneel; buttocks resting on the heels, toes turned back, back and head straight, hands on thighs.
The third position: (The Ibis). Stand, hold left ankle with right hand, (WEH NOTE: The EQUINOX version adds: "(and alternately practise right ankle in left hand, &c.)".) free forefinger on lips.
The fourth position: (The Thunderbolt). Sit; left heel pressing up anus, right foot poised on its toes, the heel covering the phallus; arms stretched out over the knees; head and back straight.
Various things will happen to you while you are practising these positions; they must be carefully analysed and described.
Note down the duration of practice; the severity of the pain (if any) which accompanies it, the degree of rigidity attained, and any other pertinent matters.
When you have progressed up to the point that a saucer filled to the brim with water and poised upon the head does not spill one drop during a whole hour, and when you can no longer perceive the slightest tremor in any muscle; when, in short, you are perfectly steady and easy, you will be admitted for examination; and, should you pass, you will be instructed in more complex and difficult practices.
IV
Pranayama - Regularisation of the Breathing

At rest in one of your positions, close the right nostril with the thumb of the right hand and breathe out slowly and completely through the left nostril, while your watch marks 20 seconds. Breathe in through the same nostril for 10 seconds. Changing hands, repeat with the other nostril. Let this be continuous for one hour.
When this is quite easy to you, increase the periods to 30 and 15 seconds.
When this is quite easy to you, but not before, breathe out for 15 seconds, in for 15 seconds, and hold the breath for 15 seconds.
When you can do this with perfect ease and comfort for a whole hour, practice breathing out for 40 and in for 20 seconds.
This being attained, practice breathing out for 20, in for 10, holding the breath for 30 seconds.
When this has become perfectly easy to you, you may be admitted for examination, and should you pass, you will be instructed in more complex and difficult practices.
You will find that the presence of food in the stomach, even in small quantities, makes the practices very difficult.
Be very careful never to overstrain your powers; especially never get so short of breath that you are compelled to breathe out jerkily or rapidly.
Strive after depth, fullness, and regularity of breathing.
Various remarkable phenomena will very probably occur during these practices. They must be carefully analysed and recorded.
V
Dharana - Control of Thought

Constrain the mind to concentrate itself upon a single simple object imagined.
The five tatwas are useful for this purpose; they are: a black oval; a blue disk; a silver crescent; a yellow square; a red triangle.
Proceed to combinations of simple objects; e.g. a black oval within a yellow square, and so on.
Proceed to simple moving objects, such as a pendulum swinging, a wheel revolving, etc. Avoid living objects.
Proceed to combinations of moving objects, e.g. a piston rising and falling while a pendulum is swinging. The relation between the two movements should be varied in different experiments.
Or even a system of flywheels, eccentrics, and governor.
During these practices the mind must be absolutely confined to the object determined upon; no other thought must be allowed to intrude upon the consciousness. The moving systems must be regular and harmonious.
Note carefully the duration of the experiments, the number and nature of the intruding thoughts, the tendency of the object itself to depart from the course laid out for it, and any other phenomena which may present themselves. Avoid overstrain; this is very important.
Proceed to imagine living objects; as a man, preferably some man known to, and respected by, yourself.
In the intervals of these experiments you may try to imagine the objects of the other senses, and to concentrate upon them. 
For example, try to imagine the taste of chocolate, the smell of roses, the feeling of velvet, the sound of a waterfall or the ticking of a watch.
Endeavour finally to shut out all objects of any of the senses, and prevent all thoughts arising in your mind. When you feel you have attained some success in these practices, apply for examination, and should you pass, more complex and difficult practices will be prescribed for you.
VI
Physical limitations

It is desirable that you should discover for yourself your physical limitations.
To this end ascertain for how many hours you can subsist without food or drink before your working capacity is seriously interfered with.
Ascertain how much alcohol you can take, and what forms of drunkenness assail you.
Ascertain how far you can walk without once stopping; likewise with dancing, swimming, running, etc.
Ascertain for how many hours you can do without sleep.
Test your endurance with various gymnastic exercises, club swinging, and so on.
Ascertain for how long you can keep silence.
Investigate any other capacities and aptitudes which may occur to you.
Let all these things be carefully and conscientiously recorded; for according to your powers will it be demanded of you.
VII
A Course of Reading

The object of most of the foregoing practices will not at first be clear to you; but at least (who will deny it?) they have trained you in determination, accuracy, introspection, and many other qualities which are valuable to all men in their ordinary avocations, so that in no case will your time have been wasted.
That you may gain some insight into the nature of the Great Work which lies beyond these elementary trifles, however, we should mention that an intelligent person may gather more than a hint of its nature from the following books, which are to be taken as serious and learned contributions to the study of Nature, though not necessarily to be implicitly relied upon.
The Yi King (S.B.E. Series, Oxford University Press.)
The Tao Teh King (S.B.E. Series.)
Tannhauser, by A. Crowley.
The Upanishads.
The Bhagavad-Gita.
The Voice of the Silence.
Raja Yoga, by Swami Vivekananda.
The Shiva Sanhita.
The Aphorisms of Patanjali.
The Sword of Song.
The Book of the Dead.
Rituel et Dogme de la Haute Magie.
The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage.
The Goetia.
The Hathayoga Pradipika.
The Spiritual Guide of Molinos.
Erdmann's History of Philosophy.
The Star in the West (Captain Fuller).
The Dhammapada (S.B.E. Series, Oxford University Press).
The Questions of King Milinda (S.B.E. Series).
777 vel Prolegomena, etc..
Varieties of Religious Experience (James).
Kabbala Denudata.
Konx Om Pax.
Careful study of these books will enable the pupil to speak in the language of his master, and facilitate communications with him.
The pupil should endeavour to discover the fundamental harmony of these very varied works; for this purpose he will find it best to study the most extreme divergencies side by side.
He may at any time that he wishes apply for examination in this course of reading.
During the whole of this elementary study and practice he will do wisely to seek out and attach himself to, a master, one competent to correct him and advise him. Nor should he be discouraged by the difficulty of finding such a person.
Let him further remember that he must in no wise rely upon, or believe in, that master. He must rely entirely upon himself, and credit nothing whatever but that which lies within his own knowledge and experience.
As in the beginning, so at the end, we here insist upon the vital importance of the written record as the only possible check upon error derived from the various qualities of the experimenter.
Thus let the work be accomplished duly; yea, let it be accomplished duly. 
(If any really important or remarkable results should occur, or if any great difficulty presents itself, the A.·. A.·. should be at once informed of the circumstances.)

LIBER PORTA LVCIS
sub figura
X

A.·. A.·.
Publication in Class A.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.·. A.·.

I behold a small dark orb, wheeling in an abyss of infinite space. It is minute among a myriad vast ones, dark amid a myriad bright ones.
I who comprehend in myself all the vast and the minute, all the bright and the dark, have mitigated the brilliance of mine unutterable splendour, sending forth V.V.V.V.V. as a ray of my light, as a messenger unto that small dark orb.
Then V.V.V.V.V. taketh up the word, and sayeth:
Men and women of the Earth, to you am I come from the Ages beyond the Ages, from the Space beyond your vision; and I bring to you these words.
But they heard him not, for they were not ready to receive them.
But certain men heard and understood, and through them shall this Knowledge be made known.
The least therefore of them, the servant of them all, writeth this book.
He writeth for them that are ready. Thus is it known if one be ready, if he be endowed with certain gifts, if he be fitted by birth, or by wealth, or by intelligence, or by some other manifest sign. And the servants of the master by his insight shall judge of these.
This Knowledge is not for all men; few indeed are called, but of these few many are chosen.
This is the nature of the Work.
First, there are many and diverse conditions of life upon this earth. In all of these is some seed of sorrow. Who can escape from sickness and from old age and from death?
We are come to save our fellows from these things. For there is a life intense with knowledge and extreme bliss which is untouched by any of them.
To this life we attain even here and now. The adepts, the servants of V.V.V.V.V., have attained thereunto.
It is impossible to tell you of the splendours of that to which they have attained.
Little by little, as your eyes grow stronger, will we unveil to you the ineffable glory of the Path of the Adepts, and its nameless goal.
Even as a man ascending a steep mountain is lost to sight of his friends in the valley, so must the adept seem. They shall say: He is lost in the clouds. But he shall rejoice in the sunlight above them, and come to the eternal snows.
Or as a scholar may learn some secret language of the ancients, his friends shall say: "Look! he pretends to read this book. But it is unintelligible - it is nonsense." Yet he delights in the Odyssey, while they read vain and vulgar things.
We shall bring you to Absolute Truth, Absolute Light, Absolute Bliss.
Many adepts throughout the ages have sought to do this; but their words have been perverted by their successors, and again and again the Veil has fallen upon the Holy of Holies.
To you who yet wander in the Court of the Profane we cannot yet reveal all; but you will easily understand that the religions of the world are but symbols and veils of the Absolute Truth. So also are the philosophies. To the adept, seeing all these things from above, there seems nothing to choose between Buddha and Mohammed, between Atheism and Theism.
The many change and pass; the one remains. Even as wood and coal and iron burn up together in one great flame, if only that furnace be of transcendent heat; so in the alembic of this spiritual alchemy, if only the zelator blow sufficiently upon his furnace all the systems of earth are consumed in the One Knowledge. 21. Nevertheless, as a fire cannot be started with iron alone, in the beginning one system may be suited for one seeker, another for another.
We therefore who are without the chains of ignorance, look closely into the heart of the seeker and lead him by the path which is best suited to his nature unto the ultimate end of all things, the supreme realization, the Life which abideth in Light, yea, the Life which abideth in Light.

Liber NV
sub figura XI

Copyright (c) Ordo Templi Orientis

ooo. This is the Book of the Cult of the Infinite Without.

oo. The Aspirant is Hadit. Nuit is the infinite espansion of the Rose; Hadit is the infinite concentration of the Rood (Instruction of V.V.V.V.V.).

o. First let the Aspirant learn in his heart the First Chapter of THE BOOK OF THE LAW (Instruction of V.V.V.V.V).

1. Worship, i.e. identify thyself with, the Khabs, the secret Light within the Heart. Within this again, unextended, is Hadit.
This is the first practice of the Meditation (ccxx,I:6 and 21).

2. Adore and understand the Rim of the Stele of Revealing.

Above, the gemmed azure is
The naked splendor of Nuit;
She bends in ecstasy to kiss
The secret ardours of Hadit

This is the first practice of Intelligence (ccxx, I:14).
3. Avoid any act of choice or discrimination.
This is the first practice of Ethics (ccxx, I:22).
4. Consider the six and fifty that 50/6=0.12.
o the circumference Nuit.
. the center, Hadit.

1 the unity proceeding, Ra-Hoor-Khuit.

2 the world of illusion.
Nuit thus comprehends All in None.
Also 50+6=56=5+6=11, the key to all Rituals.
And 50X6=300, the Spirit of the Child within.
(Note NFic=72, the Shemhamphorash and the Quinaries of the Zodiac, etc.)
This is the second practice of Intelligence (ccxx,I:24,25).

5. The Result of this Practice is the Consciousness of the Continuity of Existence, the Omnipresence of the Body of Nuit.
In other words, the Aspirant is conscious only of the Infinte Universe as a single Being.
This is the first Indication of the Nature of the Result (ccxx,I:26).

6. Meditate upon Nuit as the Continuous One Resolved into None and Two as the phases of her being.
This is the second practice of Meditation (ccxx,I:27).

7. Meditate upon the facts of Samadhi on all planes the liberation of heat in chemistry, joy in natural history, Ananda in religion, when two things join to lose themselves in a third.
This is the third practice of Meditation (ccxx, I:28,29,30).

8. Let the Aspirant pay utmost reverence to the Authority of the A.·.A.·. and follow Its instructions, and let him swear a great Oath of Devotion unto Nuit.
This is the second practice of Ethics (ccxx, I:32).

9. Let the Aspirant beware the slightest exercvise of his will against another being. Thus, lying is a better posture than sitting or standing, as it opposes less resistance to gravitation. Yet his first duty is to the force nearest and most potent; e.g. he may rise to greet a friend.
This is the third practice of Ethics (ccxx, I:41).

10. Let the Aspirant exercise his will without the least consideration for any other being. This direction cannot be understood, much less accomplished, until the previous practice has been perfected.
This is the fourth practice of Ethics (ccxx, I:42,43,44).

11. Let the Aspirant comprehend that these two practices are identical.
This is the third practice of Intelligence (ccxx, I:45).

12. Let the Aspirant live the Life Beautiful and Pleasant. For this freedom hath he won. But let each act, especially of love, be devoted wholly to his true mistress, Nuit.
This is the fifth practice of Ethics (ccxx, I:51,52,61,63).

13. Let the Aspirant yearn toward Nuit under the stars of Night, with a love directed by his Magical Will, not merely proceeding from the heart.
This is the first practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:57).

14. The Result of this Practice in the subsequent life of the Aspirant is to fill him with unimaginable joys: to give him certainty concerning the nature of the phenomenon called death, to give him peace unalterable, rest, and ecstasy.
This is the second Indication of the Nature of the Result
(ccxx, I:58).

15. Let the Aspirant prepare a perfume of resinous woods and gums, according to his inspiration.
This is the second practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:59).

16. Let the Aspirant prepare a Pantacle, as follows. Inscribe a circle within a Pentagram, upon a ground square or of such other convenient shape as he may choose. Let the circle be of scarlet, the Pentagram black, the ground royal blue studded with golden stars. Within the circle, at its centre, shall be painted a sigil that shall be revealed to the Aspirant by Nuit herself. And this Pentacle shall serve for a Telesmantic Image, or as an Eidolon, or as a Focus for the mind.
This is the third practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:60).

17. Let the Aspirant find a lonely place, if possible a place in the Desert of Sand, or if not, a place unfrequented, and without objects to disturb the view. Such are moorlands, fens, the oÿen sea, broad rivers, and open fields. Also, and especially, the summits of mountains. There let him invoke the Goddess as he hath Wisdom and Understanding so to do. But let this Invocation be that of a pure heart, i.e., a heart wholly devoted to Her, and let him remember that it is Hadit Himself in the most secret place thereof that invoketh. Then let this serpent Hadit burst into flame.
This is the fourth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:61).

18. Then shall the Aspirant come a little to lie in Her bosom.
This is the third Indication of the Nature of the Result
(ccxx, I:61).

19. Let the Aspirant stand upon the edge of a precipice in act or in imagination. And let him imagine and suffer the fear of falling.
Next let him imagine with this aid that the Earth is falling, and he with it, or he from it; and considering the infinity of space, let him excite the fear within him to the point of ecstasy, so that the most dreadful dream of falling that he hath ever suffered be as nothing in comparison. This is the forth practice of Meditation (Instruction of V.V.V.V.V.).

20. Thus having understood the nature of this Third Indication, let him in his Magick Rite fall from himself into Nuit, or expand into Her, as his imagination may compel him.
And at that moment, desiring earnestly the Kiss of Nuit, let him give one particle of dust, i.e., let Hadit give himself up utterly to Her.
This is the fifth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:61).

21. Then shall he lose all in that hour.
This is the fourth Indication of the Nature of the Result.
(ccxx, I:61).

22. Let the Aspirant prepare a lovesong of rapture unto the Goddess, or let him be inspired by Her unto this.
This is the sixth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:63).

23. Let the Aspirant be clad in a single robe. An "abbai" of scarlet wrought with gold is most suitable.
This is the seventh practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:61).

24. Let the Aspirant wear a rich head-dress. A crown of gold adorned with sapphires or diamonds with a royal blue cap of maintenance, or nemmes, is most suitable.
This is the eighth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:61).

25. Let the Aspirant wear many jewels such as he may possess.
This is the ninth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:61).

26. Let the Aspirant prepare an Elixir or libation as he may have wit to do.
This is the tenth practice of Magick Art (ccxx, I:63).

27. Let the Aspirant invoke, lying supine, his robe spread out as it were a carpet.
This is the eleventh practice of Magick Art (Instruction of V.V.V.V.V.).

28. Summary. Preliminaries.
These are the necessary possessions.

The Crown or head-dress.
The Jewels.
The Pantacle.
The Robe.
The Song or Incantation.
The Place of Invocation.
The Perfume.
The Elixir.
29. Summary continued. Preliminaries.
These are the necessary comprehensions.

The Natures of Nuit and Hadit, and their relation.
The Mystery of the Individual Will.
30. Summary continued. Preliminaries.
These are the meditations necessary to be accomplished.

The discovery of Hadit in the Aspirant, and identification with Him.
The Continuous One.
The Value of the Equation n + (-n).
Cremnophobia.
31. Summary continued. Preliminaries.
These are the Ethical Practices to be accomplished.

Assertion of the Kether-point-of-view.
Reverence to the Order.
Abolition of human will.
Exercise of true will.
Devotion to Nuit throughout a beautified life.
32. Summary continued. The Actual Rite.

Retire to desert with crown and other insignia and implements.
Burn perfume.
Chant incantation.
Drink unto Nuit the Elixir.
Lying supine, with eyes fixed on the stars, practice the sensation of falling into nothingness.
Being actually within the bosom of Nuit, let Hadit surrender Himself.
33. Summary concluded. The Results.

Expansion of consciousness to that of the Infinte.
"Loss of all" the highest mystical attainment.
True Wisdom and perfect Happiness.

Liber XIII vel
Graduum Montis Abiegni

A Syllabus of the Steps Upon the Path

A.·. A.·. Publication in Class D

The Slopes of Abiegnus

51. Let not the failure and the pain turn aside the worshippers. The foundations of the pyramid were hewn in the living rock ere sunset; did the king weep at dawn that the crown of the pyramid was yet unquarried in the distant land?

52. There was also an humming-bird that spake unto the horned cerastes, and prayed him for poison. And the great snake of Khem the Holy One, the royal Uræus serpent, answered him and said:

53. I sailed over the sky of Nu in the car called Millions-of-Years, and I saw not any creature upon Seb that was equal to me. The venom of my fang is the inheritance of my father, and of my father's father; and how shall I give it unto thee? Live thou and thy children as I and my fathers have lived, even unto an hundred millions of generations, and it may be that the mercy of the Mighty Ones may bestow upon thy children a drop of the poison of eld.

54. Then the humming-bird was afflicted in his spirit, and he flew unto the flowers, and it was as if naught had been spoken between them. Yet in a little while a serpent struck him that he died.

55. But an Ibis that meditated upon the bank of Nile the beautiful god listened and heard. And he laid aside his Ibis ways, and became as a serpent, saying Peradventure in an hundred millions of millions of generations of my children, they shall attain to a drop of the poison of the fang of the Exalted One.

56. And behold! ere the moon waxed thrice he became an Uræus serpent, and the poison of the fang was established in him and his seed even for ever and for ever.

- Liber LXV, Cap. V

I. The Probationer. His duties are laid down in Paper A, Class D. Being without, they are vague and general. He receives Liber LXI and LXV.

[Certain Probationers are admitted after six months or more to Ritual XXVIII.]

At the end of the Probation he passes Ritual DCLXXI, which constitutes him a Neophyte.

2. The Neophyte. His duties are laid down in Paper B, Class D. He receives Liber VII.

Examination in Liber O, caps. I-IV, Theoretical and Practical.

Examination in The Four Powers of the Sphinx. Practical.

Four tests are set.

Further, he builds up the magic Pentacle.

Finally he passes Ritual CXX, which constitutes him a Zelator.

3. The Zelator. His duties are laid down in Paper C, Class D. He receives Liber CCXX, XXVII, and DCCCXIII.

Examination in Posture and Control of Breath (see Equinox No. 1). Practical.

Further, he is given two meditation-practices corresponding to the two rituals DCLXXI and CXX.

(Examination is only in the knowledge of, and some little practical acquaintance with, these meditations. The complete results, if attained, would confer a much higher grade.)

Further, he forges the magic Sword.

No ritual admits to the grade of Practicus, which is conferred by authority when the task of the Zelator is accomplished.

4. The Practicus. His duties are laid down in Paper D, Class D.

Instruction and Examination in the Qabalah and Liber DCCLXXVII.

Instruction in Philosophical Meditation (Gnana-Yoga).

Examination in some one mode of divination: e.g., Geomancy, Astrology, the Tarot. Theoretical. He is given a meditation-practice on Expansion of Consciousness.

He is given a meditation-practice in the destruction of thoughts.

Instruction and Examination in Control of Speech. Practical.

Further, he casts the magic Cup.

No ritual admits to the grade of Philosophus, which is conferred by authority when the Task of the Practicus is accomplished.

5. The Philosophus. His duties are laid down in Paper E, Class D.

He practices Devotion to the Order.

Instruction and Examination in Methods of Meditation by Devotion (Bhakti-Yoga).

Instruction and Examination in Construction and Consecration of Talismans, and in Evocation.

Theoretical and Practical.

Examination in Rising on the Planes (Liber O, caps. V, VI). Practical.

He is given a meditation-practice on the Senses, and the Sheaths of the Self, and the Practice called Mahasatipatthana.

(See "The Sword of Song", "Science and Buddhism".)

Instruction and Examination in Control of Action.

Further, he cuts the Magic Wand.

Finally, the Title of Dominus Liminis is conferred upon him.

He is given meditation-practices on the Control of Thought, and is instructed in Raja-Yoga.

He receives Liber Mysteriorum and obtains a perfect understanding of the Formulae of Initiation.

He meditates upon the diverse knowledge and power that he has acquired, and harmonises it perfectly.

Further, he lights the Magic Lamp.

At last, Ritual VIII admits him to the grade of Adeptus Minor.

6. The Adeptus Minor. His duty is laid down in Paper F, Class D.

It is to follow out the instruction given in the Vision of the Eighth Aethyr for the attainment of the Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.

[NOTE. This is in truth the sole task; the others are useful only as adjuvants to and preparations for the One Work.

Moreover, once this task has been accomplished, there is no more need of human help or instruction; for by this alone may the highest attainment be reached.

All these grades are indeed but convenient landmarks, not necessarily significant. A person who had attained them all might be immeasurably the inferior of one who had attained none of them; it is Spiritual Experience alone that counts in Result; the rest is but Method.

Yet it is important to possess knowledge and power, provided that it be devoted wholly to that One Work.]

Liber Tvrris vel Domvs Dei
sub figura XVI

A.·. A.·.
Publication in Class B.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.·. A.·.

Copyright (c) Ordo Templi Orientis

0. This practice is very difficult. The student cannot hope for much success unless he have thoroughly mastered Asana, and obtained much definite success in the meditation-practices of Liber E and Liber HHH.

On the other hand, any success in this practice is of an exceedingly high character, and the student is less liable to illusion and self-deception in this than in almost any other that We make known.

[The meditation-practice in Liber E consisted in the restraint of the mind to a single predetermined imagined object exterior to the student, simple or complex, at rest or in motion: those of Liber HHH in causing the mind to pass through a predetermined series of states: the Raja-Yoga of the Hindus is mainly an extension of the methods of Liber E to interior objects: the Mahasatipatthana of the Buddhists is primarily an observation and analysis of bodily movements. While the present practice differs radically from all of these, it is of the greatest advantage to be acquainted practically with each of them, with regard firstly to their incidental difficulties, and secondly to their ascertained results in respect of psychology. ED.]

1. First Point. The student should first discover for himself the apparent position of the point in his brain where thoughts arise, if there be such a point.

If not, he should seek the position of the point where thoughts are judged.

2. Second Point. He must also develop in himself a Will of Destruction, even a Will of Annihilation. It may be that this shall be discovered at an immeasurable distance from his physical body. Nevertheless, this must he reach, with this must he identify himself even to the loss of himself.

3. Third Point. Let this Will then watch vigilantly the point where thoughts arise, or the point where they are judged, and let every thought be annihilated as it is perceived or judged.<<This is also the "Opening of the Eye of Shiva." ED.>>

4. Fourth Point. Next, let every thought be inhibited in its inception.

5. Fifth Point. Next, let even the causes or tendencies that if unchecked ultimate in thoughts be discovered and annihilated.

6. Sixth and Last Point. Let the true Cause of All<<Mayan, the Magician, or Mara. Also The Dweller on the Threshold in a very exalted sense. ED.>> be unmasked and annihilated.

7. This is that which was spoken by wise men of old time concerning the destruction of the world by fire; yea, the destruction of the world by fire.

8. [This and the following verses are of modern origin.] Let the Student remember that each Point represents a definite achievement of great difficulty.

9. Let him not then attempt the second until he be well satisfied of his mastery over the first.

10. This practice is also that which was spoken by Fra P. in a parable as followeth:

11. Foul is the robber stronghold, filled with hate;
Thief strangling thief, and mate at war with mate,
Fronting wild raiders, all forlorn to Fate!

There is nor health nor happiness therein.
Manhood is cowardice, and virtue sin.
Intolerable blackness hems it in.

Not hell's heart hath so noxious a shade;
Yet harmless and unharmed, and undismayed,
Pines in her prison an unsullied maid.

Penned by the master mage to his desire,
She baffles his seductions and his ire,
Praying God's all-annihilating fire.

The Lord of Hosts gave ear unto her song:
The Lord of Hosts waxed wrathful at her wrong.
He loosed the hound of heaven from its thong.

Violent and vivid smote the levin flash.
Once the tower rocked and cracked beneath its lash,
Caught inextinguishable fire; was ash.

But that same fire that quelled the robber strife,
And struck each being out of lust and life,
Left the mild maiden a rejoicing wife.

12. And this:

13. There is a well before the Great White Throne
That is choked up with rubbish from the ages;
Rubble and clay and sediment and stone,
Delight of lizards and despair of sages.

Only the lightning from His hand that sits,
And shall sit when the usurping tyrant falls,
Can purge that wilderness of wills and wits,
Let spring that fountain in eternal halls.

14. And this:

15. Sulphur, Salt, and Mercury:
Which is master of the three?

Salt is Lady of the Sea;
Lord of Air is Mercury.

Now by God's grace here is salt
Fixed beneath the violet vault.

Now by God's love purge it through
With our right Hermetic dew.

Now by God wherein we trust
Be our soÿhic salt combust.

Then at last the Eye shall see
Three in One and One in Three,

Sulphur, Salt, and Mercury,
Crowned by Heavenly Alchemy!

To the One who sent the Seven
Glory in the Highest Heaven!

To the Seven who are the Ten
Glory on the Earth, Amen!

16. And of the difficulties of this practice and of the Results that reward it, let these things be discovered by the right Ingenium of the Practicus.

LIBER XXI
KHING KANG KING 
THE CLASSIC OF PURITY

first written down by me
KO YUEN
LAO-TZU)
in the Episode of the Dynasty of Wu 
and now made into a Rime by me 
ALEISTER CROWLEY

A.·. A.·.
PUBLICATION IN CLASS B
Imprimatur: O.S.V. 60= 5[] Imperator

I

LAO KUN THE MASTER SAID:
..........TAO IS DEVOID OF FORM -
YET HEAVEN AND EARTH ARE BROUGHT TO BIRTH,
..........AND NURTURED BY ITS NORM.

TAO HATH NO WILL TO WORK;
..........YET BY ITS WAY OF HEAVEN
THE MOON AND SUN REJOICE TO RUN
..........AMONG THE STARRY SEVEN.

TAO HATH NO NAME; ITS WORD
.......... IS GROWTH, AND SUSTENANCE
TO ALL; I AIM TO GIVE IT NAME:
..........TAO (HEAVEN PROSPER CHANCE!)

TAO HATH TWIN PHASE WITH TEH:
..........THE SILENT AND THE STRESSED.
OF MOTION, THOSE; OF THESE, REPOSE
..........SUBLIMELY MANIFEST

HEAVEN MOVES, PURE SILENCE HE;
.......... EARTH RESTS BENEATH THE STRAIN;
SHUTTLE AND LOOM, AS WORD AND WOMB,
..........THEIR MYSTERY SUSTAIN

PURE MOTION MAKETH REST
.......... AS SILENCE MAKETH STRESS.
IF MAN WERE STILL, THEN HEAVEN SHOULD THRILL
..........WITH EARTH TO NOTHINGNESS.

SELF LOVETH SILENCE. YEA,
.......... BUT MIND DISTRACTETH IT.
MIND LOVETH REST; BUT PASSION'S PEST
..........ALLURES THE TREMBLING WIT.

IF MAN RESTRAIN DESIRE,
..........HIS MIND WILL CEASE TO ROLL,
AND MIND'S RELEASE ALLOW PURE PEACE
..........OF SILENCE TO THE SOUL.

THE SENSES WILL NOT SOIL;
.......... THE THOUGHT WILL NOT UPSTRESS;
NOR POISONS (GREED, WRATH, DULNESS) BREED
..........THEIR TRIFORM DEADLINESS.

MEN EARN NOT EASE OF TAO
.......... FOR THEIR DESIRE'S DISEASE;
BECAUSE THEIR MIND IS NOT REFINED
..........OF THOUGHT BY KILLING THESE.

IF ONE SHOULD SLAY DESIRES,
..........HIS MIND AND BODY SEEM
NO LONGER HIS, BUT PHANTASIES
..........DANCED IN A WANTON'S DREAM.

SLAY MIND, SLAY BODY, SLAY
.......... THE EXTERNAL: MATTER GOES.
THEN SPACE REMAINS; RENEW THY PAINS!
..........UP! FRONT THE FINAL FOES!

II

LAO KUN THE MASTER SAID:
..........THE ADEPT IN SKILL OF SOUL
HATH NEVER AN AIM: THE BUNGLERS SHAME
..........IS THAT HE GROÿES A GOAL.

WHO MOST POSSESS THE TEH
.......... CONCEAL THEIR MAGICK POWER;
WHO LEAST POSSESS EXERT THEIR STRENGTH
..........SEVEN TIMES IN EVERY HOUR.

THESE, WHO CLING FAST TO POWERS,
.......... WHO GUARD THEM, AND DISPLAY
THEIR MAGICK ART - THEY ARE NOT PART
..........OF TAO NOR YET OF TEH.

MEN WIN NOT TRUTH OF TAO
.......... BECAUSE THEIR MINDS ARE WRIED.
THE MIND UNCURBED, THE SELF'S PERTURBED,
..........AND LOSES TUNE OF TIDE.

LOST, THE EXTERNAL LURES;
.......... THEY TURN TO SEEK IT: THEN
ALL THINGS PERPLEX, CONFUSE, AND VEX
..........THOSE MISERABLE MEN.

DISORDERED THOUGHTS ARISE;
.......... BODY AND MIND GROW SICK.
DISGRACE AND FEAR GROW YEAR BY YEAR
..........TO THEIR CLIMACTERIC.

WILD, THEY ARE TOSSED ABOUT
..........THROUGH LIFE AND DEATH; THEY QUIVER,
SUNK IN SEA-STRESS OF BITTERNESS,
..........AND LOSE THE TAO FOR EVER.

THE TRUE, THE ABIDING TAO!
.......... WHO UNDERSTANDETH HATH;
WHO HATH THE TAO IS HERE AND NOW
..........IN SILENCE OF THE PATH

SLAY SPACE; THEN NAUGHT ABIDES.
..........HOLD NOT THY HOLY HAND!
WHEN NAUGHT GIVES BACK BEFORE THE ATTACK,
..........SERENE THY SILENCE STAND!

ALL'S REST, DEVOID OF MARK;
..........HOW SHOULD DESIRES FIX TOOTH?
WHEN THEY ARE PAST, THOU SURELY HAST
..........THE SILENCE OF THE TRUTH.

FLAWLESS THAT TRUTH AND FIXED,
.......... YET APT TO EACH APPEAL
NATURE AND SENSE TO INFLUENCE -
..........THE MAGNET TO THE STEEL!

OH! THIS TRUE TOUCH WITH ALL
..........ELASTIC AND EXACT
THAT YET ABOVE THEIR TIDES -
..........THE SILENCE FREE FROM ACT!

HE THAT HATH THIS SHALL COME
.......... LITTLE BY LITTLE, A BREATH,
SO FLOWETH HE NOW, TO TRUTH OF TAO,
..........WHEREIN HE VANISHETH.

MEN STYLE HIM LORD OF TAO,
.......... YET HE HATH NONE TO LORD.
HID MOTIVE HE OF ALL THAT BE:
..........ENOUGH FOR HIS REWARD!

HE THAT CAN COMPREHEND
.......... THIS DOCTRINE MAY TRANSMIT
THIS SACRED TAO TO MEN THAT VOW
..........THEMSELVES TO FATHOM IT.

LIBER XXV
THE STAR RUBY

Facing East, in the centre, draw deep deep deep thy breath closing thy mouth with thy right forefinger prest against thy lower lip. Then dashing down the hand with a great sweep back and out, expelling forcibly thy breath, cry APO PANTOS KAKODAIMONOS. With the same forefinger touch thy forehead, and say SOI, thy member, and say O PHALLE, [The secret sense of these words is to be sought in the numeration thereof.], thy right shoulder, and say ISCHUROS, thy left shoulder, and say EUCHARISTOS; then clasp thine hands, locking the fingers, and cry IAÕ. Advance to the East. Imagine strongly a Pentagram, aright, in thy forehead. Drawing the hands to the eyes, fling it forth, making the sign of Horus and roar THÉRION. Retire thine hand in the sign of Hoor-paar-Kraat.

Go round to the North and repeat; but say NUIT.

Go round to the West and repeat; but whisper BABALON.

Go round to the South and repeat; but bellow HADIT.

Completing the circle widdershins, retire to the centre and raise thy voice in the Paian, with these words IÕ PAN, with the signs of N.O.X.

Extend the arms in the form of a Tau and say low but clear:
PRO MOU IUNGES OPICHÕ MOU TELETARCHAI EPI DEXIA CHUNOCHES EPARISTERA DAIMONOS PHEG EI GAR PERI MOU O ASTÉR TÕN PENTE KAI EN TÉI STÉLÉI Õ ASTÉR TÕN EX ESTÉXE.

Repeat the Cross Qabalistic, as above, and end as thou didst begin.

Liber Trigrammaton
sub Figura XXVII

Copyright (c) Ordo Templi Orientis

Although the main body of this Liber is Class A, the attribution of letters to the English Alphabet is not of that level. These letters were added at a later date by Crowley, and with the later revisions of Liber DCCLXXVII, form one approach toward an English Qabalah. These letters are positioned to the left of the trigrams in this text. --- Bill Heidrick

Liber Trigrammaton

sub figura
XXVII

Being the Book of the Trigrams of the Mutations of the Tao with the Yin and the Yang

*
*
*

Here is Nothing under its three forms. It is not, yet informeth all things.

*
*
---

Now cometh the glory of the Single One, as an imperfection and stain.

*
*
- -

But by the Weak One the Mother was it equilibrated.

*
---
*

Also the purity was divided by Strength, the force of the Demiurge.

*
- -
*

And the Cross was formulated in the Universe that as yet was not.

---
*
*

But now the Imperfection became manifest, presiding over the fading of perfection.

- -
*
*

Also the Woman arose, and veiled the Upper Heaven with her body of stars.

*
---
---

Now then a giant arose, of terrible strength; and asserted the Spirit in a secret rite.

*
---
- -

And the Master of the Temple balancing all things arose; his stature was above the Heaven and below Earth and Hell.

*
- -
---

Against him the Brothers of the Left-hand Path, confusing the symbols. They concealed their horror [in this symbol]; for in truth they were

- -
---
*


*
- -
- -

The master flamed forth as a star and set a guard of Water in every Abyss.

---
*
---

Also certain secret ones concealed the Light of Purity in themselves, protecting it from the Persecutions.

---
*
- -

Likewise also did certain sons and daughters of Hermes and of Aphrodite, more openly

- -
*
---

But the Enemy confused them. They pretended to conceal that Light, that they might betray it, and profane it.

- -
*
- -

Yet certain holy nuns concealed the secret in songs upon the lyre.

---
---
*

Now did the Horror of Time pervert all things, hiding the Purity with a loathsome thing, a thing unnameable.

---
- -
*

Yea, and there arose sensualists upon the firmament, as a foul stain of storm upon the sky.

- -
---
*

And the Black Brothers raised their heads; yea, they unveiled themselves without shame or fear.

- -
- -
*

Also there rose up a soul of filth and of weakness, and it corrupted all the rule of the Tao.

---
---
---

Then only was Heaven established to bear sway; for only in the lowest corruption is form manifest.

---
---
- -

Also did Heaven manifest in violent light,

---
- -
---

And in soft light.

- -
---
---

Then were the waters gathered together from the heaven,

---
- -
- -

And a crust of earth concealed the core of flame.

- -
---
- -

Around the globe gathered the wide air,

- -
- -
---

And men began to light fires upon the earth.

- -
- -
- -

Therefore was the end of it sorrow; yet in that sorrow a sixfold star of glory whereby they might see to return unto the stainless Abode; yea, unto the Stainless Abode.

LIBER LIBRÆ
SVB FIGVRA
XXX

A.·. A.·. Publication in Class B.
Issued by order: 
D.D.S.
7° = 4°
Premonstrator

O.S.V.
6° = 5°
Imperator

N.S.F.
5° = 6°
Cancellarius

O. Learn first --- Oh thou who aspirest unto our ancient Order! --- that Equilibrium is the basis of the Work. If thou thyself hast not a sure foundation, whereon wilt thou stand to direct the forces of Nature?

1. Know then, that as man is born into this world amidst the Darkness of Matter, and the strife of contending forces; so must his first endeavour be to seek the Light through their reconciliation.

2. Thou then, who hast trials and troubles, rejoice because of them, for in them is Strength, and by their means is a pathway opened unto that Light.

3. How should it be otherwise, O man, whose life is but a day in Eternity, a drop in the Ocean of time; how, were thy trials not many, couldst thou purge thy soul from the dross of earth?

Is it but now that the Higher Life is beset with dangers and difficulties; hath it not ever been so with the Sages and Hierophants of the past? They have been persecuted and reviled, they have been tormented of men; yet through this also has their Glory increased.

4. Rejoice therefore, O Initiate, for the greater thy trial the greater thy Triumph. When men shall revile thee, and speak against thee falsely, hath not the Master said, "Blessed art thou!"?

5. Yet, oh aspirant, let thy victories bring thee not Vanity, for with increase of Knowledge should come increase of Wisdom. He who knoweth little, thinketh he knoweth much; but he who knoweth much hath learned his own ignorance. Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a fool, than of him.

6. Be not hasty to condemn others; how knowest thou that in their place, thou couldest have resisted the temptation? And even were it so, why shouldst thou despise one who is weaker than thyself?

7. Thou therefore who desirest Magical Gifts, be sure that thy soul is firm and steadfast; for it is by flattering thy weaknesses that the Weak Ones will gain power over thee. Humble thyself before thy Self, yet fear neither man not spirit. Fear is failure, and the forerunner of failure: and courage is the beginning of virtue.

8. Therefore fear not the Spirits, but be firm and courteous with them; for thou hast no right to despise or revile them; and this too may lead thee astray. Command and banish them, curse them by the Great Names if need be; but neither mock nor revile them, for so assuredly wilt thou be lead into error.

9. A man is what he maketh himself within the limits fixed by his inherited destiny; he is a part of mankind; his actions affect not only what he calleth himself, but also the whole universe.

10. Worship and neglect not, the physical body which is thy temporary connection with the outer and material world. Therefore let thy mental Equilibrium be above disturbance by material events; strengthen and control the animal passions, discipline the emotions and the reason, nourish the Higher Aspirations.

11. Do good unto others for its own sake, not for reward, not for gratitude from them, not for sympathy. If thou art generous, thou wilt not long for thine ears to be tickled by expressions of gratitude.

12. Remember that unbalanced force is evil; that unbalanced severity is but cruelty and oppression; but that also unbalanced mercy is but weakness which would allow and abet Evil. Act passionately; think rationally; be Thyself.

13. True ritual is as much action as word; it is Will.

14. Remember that this earth is but an atom in the universe, and that thou thyself art but an atom thereon, and that even couldst thou become the God of this earth whereon thou crawlest and grovellest, that thou wouldest, even then, be but an atom, and one amongst many.

15. Nevertheless have the greatest self-respect, and to that end sin not against thyself. The sin which is unpardonable is knowingly and wilfully to reject truth, to fear knowledge lest that knowledge pander not to thy prejudices.

16. To obtain Magical Power, learn to control thought; admit only those ideas that are in harmony with the end desired, and not every stray and contradictory Idea that presents itself.

17. Fixed thought is a means to an end. Therefore pay attention to the power of silent thought and meditation. The material act is but the outward expression of thy thought, and therefore hath it been said that "the thought of foolishness is sin." Thought is the commencement of action, and if a chance thought can produce much effect, what cannot fixed thought do?

18. Therefore, as hath already been said, Establish thyself firmly in the equilibrium of forces, in the centre of the Cross of the Elements, that Cross from whose centre the Creative Word issued in the birth of the Dawning Universe.

19. Be thou therefore prompt and active as the Sylphs, but avoid frivolity and caprice; be energetic and strong like the Salamanders, but avoid irritability and ferocity; be flexible and attentive to images like the Undines, but avoid idleness and changeability; be laborious and patient like the Gnomes, but avoid grossness and avarice.

20. So shalt thou gradually develop the powers of thy soul, and fit thyself to command the Spirits of the elements. For wert thou to summon the Gnomes to pander to thine avarice, thou wouldst no longer command them, but they would command thee. Wouldst thou abuse the pure beings of the woods and mountains to fill thy coffers and satisfy thy hunger of Gold? Wouldst thou debase the Spirits of Living Fire to serve thy wrath and hatred? Wouldst thou violate the purity of the Souls of the Waters to pander to thy lust of debauchery? Wouldst thou force the Spirits of the Evening Breeze to minister to thy folly and caprice? Know that with such desires thou canst but attract the Weak, not the Strong, and in that case the Weak will have power over thee.

21. In the true religion there is no sect, therefore take heed that thou blaspheme not the name by which another knoweth his God; for if thou do this thing in Jupiter thou wilt blaspheme HB:Heh HB:Vau HB:Heh HB:Yod and in Osiris HB:Heh HB:Vau HB:Shin HB:Heh HB:Yod . Ask and ye shall have! Seek, and ye shall find! Knock, and it shall be opened unto you!


An Account of A.·.A.·.
sub figura XXXIII

Publication in class C

First written in the language of his period by the Councillor Von Eckartshausen and now revised and rewritten in the Universal Cipher

A.·. A.·.
Official publication in Class C
Issued by Order:
D.D.S. 7deg. = 4deg.
O.S.V. 6deg. = 5deg.
N.S.F. 5deg. = 6deg.
{Illustration opposite to this page: A collotype in gray-black on an embossed inset rectangle. This is a figure in Neophyte robe, face forward. The figure is vertical, frontal with hood down and triangle atop forehead. Left arm hangs down vertically. Right hand with index finger to lips in gesture of silence, other fingers closed under thumb and palm facing left. Feet are bare and placed heel nearly to heel at right angles with right foot directly pointed forward and left pointed left. The figure is framed by a plaster or clay low bas-relief in six panels: Top is a Ba-hadit or winged sun, sans serpents. Left and right are two tapering pillars, crossed near top by three bars, drum expanding slightly at top but not approaching more than 3/4 diameter of base. The pillars are surmounted by the atef crown (two plumes of Maat joined by an ovoid at base and resting on two horizontal wavy rams horns). The bottom three panels are blank.}

AN ACCOUNT OF A.·. A.·.

IT is necessary, my dear brothers, to give you a clear idea of the interior Order; of that illuminated community which is scattered throughout the world, but which is governed by one truth and united in one spirit.

This community possesses a School, in which all who thirst for knowledge are instructed by the Spirit of Wisdom itself; and all the mysteries of nature are preserved in this school for the children of light. Perfect knowledge of nature and of humanity is taught in this school. It is from her that all truths penetrate into the world; she is the school of all who search for wisdom, and it is in this community alone that truth and the explantation of all mystery are to be found. It is the most hidden of communities, yet it contains members from many circles; nor is there any Centre of Thought whose activity is not due to the presence of one of ourselves. From all time there has been an exterior school based on the interior one, of which it is but the outer expression. From all time, therefore, there has been a hidden assembly, a society of the Elect, of those who sought for and had capacity for light, and this interior society was the Axle of the R.O.T.A. All that any external order possesses in symbol, ceremony, or rite is the letter expressive outwardly of that spirit of truth which dwelleth in the interior Sanctuary. Nor is the contradiction of the exterior any bar to the harmony of the interior.

Hence this Sanctuary, composed of members widely scattered indeed but united by the bonds of perfect love, has been occupied from the earliest ages in building the grand Temple (through the evolution of humanity) by which the reign of L.V.X. will be manifest. This society is in the communion of those who have most capacity for light; they are united in truth, and their Chief is the Light of the World himself, V.V.V.V.V., the One Anointed in Light, the single teacher for the human race, the Way, the Truth, and the Life.

The interior Order was formed immediately after the first perception of man's wider heritage had dawned upon the first of the adepts; it received from the Masters at first-hand the revelation of the means by which humanity could be raised to its rights and delivered from its misery. It received the primitive charge of all revelation and mystery; it received the key of true science, both divine and natural.

But as men multiplied, the frailty of man necessitated an exterior society which veiled the interior one, and concealed the spirit and the truth in the letter, because many people were not capable of comprehending great interior truth. Therefore, interior truths were wrapped in external and perceptible ceremonies, so that men, by the perception of the outer which is the symbol of the interior, might by degrees be enabled safely to approach the interior spiritual truths.

But the inner truth has always been confided to him who in his day had the most capacity for illumination, and he became the sole guardian of the original Trust, as High Priest of the Sanctuary.

When it became necessary that interior truths should be enfolded in exterior ceremony and symbol, on account of the real weakness of men who were not capable of hearing the Light of Light, then exterior worship began. It was, however, always the type or symbol of the interior, that is to say, the symbol of the true and Secret Sacrament.

The external worship would never have been separated from interior revel but for the weakness of man, which tends too easily to forget the spirit in the letter; but the Masters are vigilant to note in every nation those who are able to receive light, and such persons are employed as agents to spread the light according to man's capacity and to revivify the dead letter.

Through these instruments the interior truths of the Sanctuary were taken into every nation, and modified symbolically according to their customs, capacity for instruction, climate, and receptiveness. So that the external types of every religion, worship, ceremonies and Sacred Books in general have more or less clearly, as their object of instruction, the interior truths of the Sanctuary, by which man will be conducted to the universal knowledge of the one Absolute Truth.

The more the external worship of a people has remained united with the spirit of esoteric truth, the purer its religion; but the wider the difference between the symbolic letter and the invisible truth, the more imperfect has become the religion. Finally, it may be, the external form has entirely parted from its inner truth, so that ceremonial observances without soul or life have remained alone.

In the midst of all this, truth reposes inviolable in the inner Sanctuary.

Faithful to the spirit of truth, the members of the interior Order live in silence, but in real activity.

Yet, besides their secret holy work, they have from time to time decided upon political strategic action.

Thus, when the earth was night utterly corrupt by reason of the Great Sorcery, the Brethren sent Mohammed to bring freedom to mankind by the sword.

This being but partially a success, they raised up one Luther to teach freedom of thought. Yet this freedom soon turned into a heavier bondage than before.

Then the Brethren delivered unto man the knowledge of nature, and the keys thereof; yet this also was prevented by the Great Sorcery.

Now then finally in nameless ways, as one of our Brethren hath it now in mind to declare, have they raised up One to deliver unto men the keys of Spiritual Knowledge, and by His work shall He be judged.

This interior community of light is the reunion of all those capable of receiving light, and it is known as the Communion of Saints, the primitive receptacle for all strength and truth, confided to it from all time.

By it the agents of L.V.X. were formed in every age, passing from the interior to the exterior, and communicating spiritand life to the dead letter, as already said.

This illuminated community is the true school of L.V.X.; it has its Chair, its Doctors; it possesses a rule for students; it has forms and objects for study.

It has also its degrees for successive develoÿment to greater altitudes.

This school of wisdom has been for ever most secretly hidden from the world, because it is invisible and submissive solely to illuminated government.

It has never been exposed to the accidents of time and to the weakness of man, because only the most capable were chosen for it, and those who selected made no error.

Through this school were developed the germs of all the sublime sciences, which were first received by external schools, then clothed in other forms, and hence degenerated.

According to time and circumstances, the society of sages communicated unto the exterior societies their symbolic hieroglyphs, in order to attract man to the great truths of their Sanctuary.

But all exterior societies subsist only by virtue of this interior one. As soon as external societies wish to transform a temple of wisdom into a political edifice, the interior society retires and leaves only the letter without the spirit. It is thus that secret external societies of wisdom were nothing but hieroglyphic screens, the truth remaining inviolable in the Sanctuary so that she might never be profaned.

In this interior society man finds wisdom and with her All--- not the wisdom of this world, which is but scientific knowledge, which revolves round the outside but never touches the centre (in which is contained all strength), but true wisdom, understanding and knowledge, reflections of the supreme illumination.

All disputes, all controversies, all the things belonging to the false cares of this world, fruitless discussions, useless germs of opinions which spread the seeds of disunion, all error, schisms, and systems are banished. Neither calumny nor scandal is known. Every man is honoured. Love alone reigns.

We must not, however, imagine that this society resembles any secret society, meeting at certain times, choosing leaders and members, united by special objects. All societies, be what they may, can but come after this interior illuminated circle. This society knows none of the formalities which belong to the outer rings, the work of man. In this kingdom of power all outward forms cease.

L.V.X. is the Power always present. The greatest man of his times, the chief himself, does not always know all the members, but the moment when it is necessary that he should accomplish any object he finds them in the world with certainty ready to his hand.

This community has no outside barriers. He who may be chosen is as the first; he presents himself among the others without presumption, and he is received by the others without jealousy.

If it be necessary that real members should meet together, they find and recognize each other with perfect certainty.

No disguise can be used, neither hypocrisy nor dissimulation could hide the characteristic qualities which distinguish the members of this society. All illusion is gone, and things appear in their true form.

No one member can choose another; unanimous choice is required. Though not all men are called, many of called are chosen, and that as soon as they become fit for entrance.

Any man can look for the entrance, and any man who is within can teach another to seek for it; but only he who is fit can arrive within.

Unprepared men occasion disorder in a community, and disorder is not compatible with the Sanctuary. Thus it is impossible to profane the Sanctuary, since admission is not formal but real.

Worldly intelligence seeks this Sanctuary in vain; fruitless also will be the efforts of malice to penetrate these great mysteries; all is indecipherable to him who is not ripe; he can see nothing, read nothing in the interior.

He who is fit is joined to the chain, perhaps often where he though least likely, and at a point of which he knew nothing himself.

To become fit should be the sole effort of him who seeks wisdom.

But there are methods by which fitness is attained, for in this holy communion is the primitive storehouse of the most ancient and original science of the human race, with the primitive mysteries also of all science. It is the unique and really illuminated community which is absolutely in possession of the key to all mystery, which knows the centre and source of all nature. It is a society which unites superior strength to its own, and counts its members from more than one world. It is the society whose members form the republic of Genius, the Regent Mother of the whole World.

[The Revisers wish to acknowledge gratefully the translation of Madame de Steiger, which they have freely quoted.]

LIBER XXXVI
THE STAR SAPPHIRE

Publication in Class D

Let the Adept be armed with his Magick Rood [and provided with his mystic rose].

In the centre, let him give the L.V.X. signs; or if he know them, if he will and dare do them, and can keep silent about them, the signs of N.O.X. being the signs of Puer, Vir, Puella, Mulier. Omit the sign. I.R.

Then let him advance to the East and make the Holy Hexagram, saying: Pater et Mater unus deus Ararita.

Let him go round to the South, make the Holy Hexagram and say: Mater et Filius unus deus Ararita.

Let him go round to the North, make the Holy Hexagram and then say: Filia et Pater unus deus Ararita.

Let him then return to the Centre, and so to The Centre of All (making the Rosy Cross as he may know how) saying Ararita Ararita Ararita (In this the Signs shall be those of Set Triumphant and of Baphomet. Also shall Set appear in the Circle. Let him drink of the Sacrament and let him communicate the same.) Then let him say: Omnia in Duos: Duo in Unum: Unus in Nihil: Haec nec Quatuor nec Omnia nec Duo nec Unus nec Nihil Sunt.

Gloria Patri et Matri et Filio et Filiae et Spiritui Sancto externo et Spiritui Sancto interno ut erat est erit in saecula Saeculorum sex in uno per nomen Septem in uno Ararita.

Let him then repeat the signs of L.V.X. but not the signs of N.O.X.: for it is not he that shall arise in the Sign of Isis Rejoicing.

I

"THE DECAY OF MANNERS."

SINCE nobody can have the presumption to doubt the demonstration of St. Thomas Aquinas that this world is the best of all possible worlds, it follows that the imperfect condition of things which I am about to describe can only obtain in some other universe; probably the whole affair is but the figment of my diseased imagination. Yet if this be so, how can we reconcile the disease with perfection?

Clearly there is something wrong here; the apparent syllogism turns out on examination to be an enthymeme with a suppressed and impossible Major. There is no progression on these lines, and what I foolishly mistook for a nice easy way to glide into my story proves but the blindest of blind alleys.

We must begin therefore by the simple and austere process of beginning.

The conditions of Japan was at this time (what time? Here we are in trouble with the historian at once. But let me say that I will have no interference with my story on the part of all these dull sensible people. I am going straight on, and if the reviews are unfavourable, one has always the resource of suicide) dangerously unstable. The warrior aristocracy of the Upper House had been so diluted with successful cheesemongers that adulteration had become a virtue as highly profitable as adultery. In the Lower House brains were still esteemed, but they had been interpreted as the knack of passing examinations.

The recent extension of the franchise to women had rendered the Yoshiwara the most formidable of the political organizations, while the physique of the nation had been seriously impaired by the results of a law which, by assuring them in case of injury or illness of a life-long competence of idleness which they could never have obtained otherwise by the most laborious toil, encouraged all workers to be utterly careless of their health. The training of servants indeed at this time consisted solely of careful practical instruction in the art of falling down stairs; and the richest man in the country was an ex-butler who, by breaking his leg on no less than thirty-eight occasions, had acquired a pension which put that of a field-marshal altogether into the shade.

As yet, however, the country was not yet irretrievably doomed. A system of intrigue and blackmail, elaborated by the governing classes to the highest degree of efficiency, acted as a powerful counterpoise. In theory all were equal; in practice the permanent officials, the real rulers of the country, were a distinguished and trustworthy body of men. Their interest was to govern well, for any civil or foreign disturbance would undoubtedly have fanned the sparks of discontent into the roaring flame of revolution.

And discontent there was. The unsuccessful cheesemongers were very bitter against the Upper House; and those who had failed in examinations wrote appalling diabetes against the folly of the educational system.

The trouble was that they were right; the government was well enough in fact, but in theory had hardly a leg to stand on. In view of the growing clamour, the official classes were perturbed; for many of their number were intelligent enough to see that a thoroughly irrational system, however well it may work in practice, cannot for ever be maintained against the attacks of those who, though they may be secretly stigmatized as doctrinaires, can bring forward unanswerable arguments. The people had power, but not reason; so were amenable to the fallacies which they mistook for reason and not to the power which they would have imagined to be tyranny. An intelligent plebs is docile; and educated canaille expects everything to be logical. The shallow sophisms of the socialist were intelligible; they could not be refuted by the profounder and therefore unintelligible propositions of the Tory.

The mob could understand the superficial resemblance of babies; they could not be got to understand that the circumstances of education and environment made but a small portion of the equipment of a conscious being. The brutal and truthful "You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear" had been forgotten for the smooth and plausible fallacies of such writers as Ki Ra Di.

So serious had the situation become, indeed, that the governing classes had abandoned all dogmas of Divine Right and the like as untenable. The theory of heredity had broken down, and the ennoblement of the cheesemongers made it not only false, but ridiculous.

We consequently find them engaged in the fatuous task of defending the anomalies which disgusted the nation by a campaign of glaring and venal sophistries. These deceived nobody, and only inspired the contempt, which might have been harmless, with a hate which threatened to engulph the community in an abyss of the most formidable convulsions.

Such was the razor-edge upon which the unsteady feet of the republic strode when, a few years before the date of my visit, the philosoÿher Kwaw landed at Nagasaki after an exhilarating swim from the mainland.

II

"STANDING ALONE."

KWAW, when he crossed the Yellow Sea, was of the full age of thirty-two years. The twenty previous equinoxes had passed over his head as he wandered, sole human tenant, among the colossal yet ignoble ruins of Wei Hai Wei. His only companions were the lion and the lizard, who frequented the crumbling remains of the officers' quarters; while in the little cemetery the hoofs of the wild ass beat (uselessly, if he wished to wake them) upon the tombs of the sportsmen that once thronged those desolate halls.

During this time Kwaw devoted his entire attention to the pursuit of philosophy; for the vast quantities of excellent stores abandoned by the British army left him no anxiety upon the score of hunger.

In the first year he disciplined and conquered his body and its emotions.

In the next six years he disciplined and conquered his mind and its thoughts.

In the next two years he had reduced the Universe to the Yang and the Yin and their permutations in the trigrams of Fo-hi and the hexagrams of King Wu.

In the last year he abolished the Yang and the Yin, and became united with the great Tao.

All this was very satisfactory to Kwaw. But even his iron frame had become somewhat impaired by the unvarying diet of tinned provisions; and it was perhaps only by virtue of the talisman that he succeeded in his famous attempt to outdo the feats of Captain Webb. Nor was his reception less than a triumph. So athletic a nation as the Japanese still were could not but honour so superb an achievement, though it cost them dear, inasmuch as the Navy League (by an astute series of political moves) compelled the party in power to treble the Navy, build a continuous line of forts around the sea-coast, and expend many billions of yen upon the scientific breeding of a more voracious species of shark than had hitherto infested their shores.

So they carried Kwaw shoulder-high to the Yoshiwara, and passed him the glad hand, and called out the Indians, and annexed his personal property for relics, and otherwise followed the customs of the best New York Society, while the German Band accompanied the famous Ka Ru So to the following delightful ballad:

CHORUS.	Blow the tom-tom, bang the flute!
 	Let us all be merry!
 	I'm a party with acute
 	Chronic beri-beri.
 	 
I.
 	Monday I'm a skinny critter
 	Quite Felicien-Rops-y.
 	Blow the cymbal, bang the zither!
 	Tuesday I have dropsy.
 	Chorus.
 	 
II.
 	Wednesday cardiac symptoms come;
 	Thursday diabetic,
 	Blow the fiddle, strum the drum!
 	Friday I'm paretic.
 	Chorus.
 	 
III.
 	If on Saturday my foes
 	Join in legions serried,
 	Then, on Sunday, I suppose
 	I'll be beri-beried!
 	Chorus.
One need not be intimately familiar with the Japanese character to understand that Kwaw and his feat were forgotten in a very few days; but a wealthy Daimio, with a taste for observation, took it into his head to inquire of Kwaw for what purpose he had entered the country in so strange a manner. It will simplify matters if I reproduce in extenso the correspondence, which was carried on by telegram.

Who is your honourable self, and why has your excellency paid us cattle the distinguished compliment of a visit?
This disgusting worm is great Tao. I humbly beg of your sublime radiance to trample his slave.
Regret great toe unintelligible.
Great Tao — T.A.O. — Tao.
What is the great Tao?
The result of subtracting the universe from itself.
Good, but this decaying dog cannot grant your honourable excellency's sublime desire, but, on the contrary, would earnestly pray your brilliant serenity to spit upon his grovelling "joro."
Profound thought assures your beetle-headed suppliant that your glorious nobility must meet him before the controversy can be decided.
True. Would your sublimity condescend to defile himself by entering this muck-sweeper's miserable hovel?
Expect leprous dragon with beri beri at your high mightiness's magnificent heavenly palace to-morrow (Thursday) afternoon at three sharp.
Thus met Kwaw, the poet-philosopher of China; and Juju, the godfather of his country.

Sublime moment in eternity! To the names of Joshua and Hezekiah add that of Kwaw! For though he was a quarter of an hour late for the appointment, the hands went back on the dial of Juju's chronometer, so that no shadow of distrust or annoyance clouded the rapture of that supreme event.

III

"THE MANIFESTING OF SIMPLICITY."

"WHAT," said Juju, "O great Tao, do you recommend as a remedy for the ills of my unhappy country?"

The sage replied as follows: "O mighty and magniloquent Daimio, your aristocracy is not an aristocracy because it is not an aristocracy. In vain you seek to alter this circumstance by paying the noxious vermin of the Dai Li Pai Pur to write fatuous falsehoods maintaining that your aristocracy is an aristocracy because it is an aristocracy.

"As Heracleitus overcame the antinomy of Xenophanes and Parmenides, Melissus and the Eleatic Zero, and Ens and the Non-Ens by his Becoming, so let me say to you; the aristocracy will be an aristocracy by becoming an aristocracy.

"Ki Ra Di and his dirty-faced friends wish to level down the good practice to the bad theory; you should oppose them be levelling up the bad theory to the good practice.

"Your enviers boast that you are no better than they; prove to them that they are as good as you. They speak of a nobility of fools and knaves; show to them wise and honest men, and the socialistic ginger is no longer hot in the individualistic mouth."

Juju grunted assent. He had gone almost to sleep, but Kwaw, absorbed in his subject, never noticed the fact. He went on with the alacrity of a steam-roller, and the direct and purposeful vigour of a hypnotized butterfly. "Man is perfect by his identity with the great Tao. Subsidiary to this he must have balanced perfectly the Yang and the Yin. Easier still is it to rule the sixfold star of Intellect; while for the base the control of the body and its emotions is the earliest step.

"Equilibrium is the great law, and perfect equilibrium is crowned by identity with the great Tao."

He emphasized this sublime assertion by a deliberate blow upon the protruding abdomen of the worthy Juju.

"Pray continue your honourable discourse!" exclaimed the half-awakened Daimio.

Kwaw went on, and I think it only fair to say that he went on for a long time, and that because you have been fool enough to read thus far, you have no excuse for being fool enough to read farther.

"Phenacetin is a useful drug in fever, but woe to that patient who shall imbibe it in collapse. Because calomel is a dangerous remedy in appendicitis, we do not condemn its use in simple indigestions.

"As above so beneath! said Hermes the thrice greatest. The laws of the physical world are precisely paralleled by those of the moral and intellectual sphere. To the prostitute I prescribe a course of training by which she shall comprehend the holiness of sex. Chastity forms part of that training, and I should hope to see her one day a happy wife and mother. To the prude equally I prescribe a course of training by which she shall comprehend the holiness of sex. Unchastity forms part of that training, and I should hope to see her one day a happy wife and mother.

"To the bigot I commend a course of Thomas Henry Huxley; to the infidel a practical study of ceremonial magic. Then, when the bigot has knowledge and the infidel faith, each may follow without prejudice his natural inclination; for he will no longer plunge into his former excesses.

"So also she who was a prostitute from native passion may indulge with safety in the pleasure of love; she who was by nature cold may enjoy a virginity in no wise marred by her disciplinary course of unchastity. But the one will understand and love the other.

"I have been taxed with assaulting what is commonly known as virtue. True; I hate it, but only in the same degree that I hate what is commonly known as vice.

"So it must be acknowledged that one who is but slightly unbalanced needs a milder correction than whoso is obsessed by prejudice. There are men who make a fetish of cleanliness; they shall work in a fitter's shop, and learn that dirt is the mark of honourable toil. There are those whose lives are rendered wretched by the fear of infection; they see bacteria of the deadliest sort in all things but the actual solutions of carbolic acid and mercuric chloride with which they hysterically combat their invisible foemen; such would I send to live in the bazaar at Delhi, where they shall haply learn that dirt makes little difference after all.

"There are slow men who need a few months' experience of the hustle of the stockyards; there are business men in a hurry, and they shall travel in Central Asia to acquire the art of repose.

"So much for the equilibrium, and for two months in every year each member of your governing classes shall undergo this training under skilled advice.

"But what of the Great Tao? For one month in every year each of these men shall seek desperately for the Stone of the Philosophers. By solitude and fasting for the social and luxurious, by drunkenness and debauch for the austere, by scourging for those afraid of physical pain, by repose for the restless, and toil for the idle, by bull-fights for the humanitarian, and the care of little children for the callous, by rituals for the rational, and by philosophy for the credulous, shall these men, while yet unbalanced, seek to attain to unity with the great Tao. But for those whose intellect is purified and co-ordinated, for those whose bodies are in health, and whose passions are at once eager and controlled, it shall be lawful to choose their own way to the One Goal; videlicet, identity with that great Tao which is above the antithesis of Yang and Yin."

Even Kwaw felt tired, and applied himself to saké-and-soda. Refreshed, he continued: "The men who are willing by this means to become the saviours of their country shall be called the Synagogue of Satan, so as to keep themselves from the friendship of the fools who mistake names for things. There shall be masters of the Synagogue, but they shall never seek to dominate. They shall most carefully abstain from inducing any man to seek the Tao by any other way than that of equilibrium. They shall develop individual genius without considering whether in their opinion its fruition will tend to the good or evil of their country or of the world; for who are they to interfere with a soul whose balance has been crowned by the most holy Tao?

"The masters shall be great men among men; but among great men they shall be friends.

"Since equilibrium will have become perfect, a greater than Napoleon shall arise, and the peaceful shall rejoice thereat; a greater than Darwin, and the minister in his pulpit give open thanks to God.

"The instructed infidel shall no longer sneer at the church-goer, for he will have been compelled to go to church until he saw the good points as well as the bad; and the instructed devotee will no longer detest the blasphemer, because he will have laughed with Ingersoll and Saladin.

"Give the lion the heart of the lamb, and the lamb the force of the lion; and they will lie down in peace together."

Kwaw ceased, and the heavy and regular breathing of Juju assured him that his words had not been wasted; at last that restless and harried soul had found supreme repose.

Kwaw tapped the gong. "I have achieved my task," said he to the obsequious major-domo, "I pray leave to retire from the Presence." "I beg your excellency to follow me," replied the gorgeous functionary, "his lordship has commanded me to see that your holiness is supplied with everything that you desire." Then the sage laughed aloud.

IV

"THINGS TO BE BELIEVED."

SIX months passed by, and Juju, stirring in his sleep, remembered the duties of politeness, and asked for Kwaw.

"He is on your lordship's estate at Nikko," the servants hastened to reply, "and he has turned the whole place completely upside down. Millions of yen have been expended monthly; he has even mortgaged this very palace in which your lordship has been asleep; a body of madmen has seized the reins of government——"

"The Synagogue of Satan!" gasped the outraged Daimio.

"—And you are everywhere hailed as the Godfather of your country!"

"Do not tell me that the British war has ended disastrously for us!" and he called for the elaborate apparatus of hari-kari.

"On the contrary, my lord, the ridiculous Sa Mon, who would never go to sea because he was afraid of being sick, although his genius for naval strategy had no equal in the Seven Abysses of Water, after a month as stowaway on a fishing boat (by the order of Kwaw) assumed the rank of Admiral of the Fleet, and has inflicted a series of complete and crushing defeats upon the British Admirals, who though they had been on the water all their lives, had incomprehensibly omitted to acquire any truly accurate knowledge of the metaphysical systems of Sho Pi Naour and Ni Tchze.

"Again, Hu Li, the financial genius, who had hitherto been practically useless to his country on account of that ugliness and deformity which led him to shun the society of his fellows, was compelled by Kwaw to exhibit himself as a freak. A fortnight of this cured him of shyness; and within three months he has nearly doubled the revenue and halved the taxes. Your lordship has spent millions of yen; but is to-day a richer man than when your excellency went to sleep."

"I will go and see this Kwaw," said the Daimio. The servants then admitted that the Mikado in person had been waiting at the palace door for over three months, for the very purpose of begging permission to conduct him thither, but that he had been unwilling to disturb the sleep of the Godfather of his country.

Impossible to describe the affecting scene when these two magnanimous beings melted away (as it were) in each other's arms.

Arrived at the estate of Juju at Nikko, what wonder did these worthies express to see the simple means by which Kwaw had worked his miracles! In a glade of brilliant cherry and hibiscus (and any other beautiful trees you can think of) stood a plain building of stone, which after all had not cost millions of yen, but a very few thousands only. Its height was equal to its breadth, and its length was equal to the sum of these, while the sum of these three meas urements was precisely equal to ten times the age of Kwaw in units of the span of his hand. The walls were tremendously thick and there was only one door and two windows, all in the eye of the sunset. One cannot describe the inside of the building, because to do so would spoil all the fun for other people. It must be seen to be understood, in any case; and there it stands to this day, open to anybody who is strong enough to force in the door.

But when they asked for Kwaw, he was not to be found. He had left trained men to carry out the discipline and the initiations, these last being the chief purpose of the building, saying that he was homesick for the lions and lizards of Wei-Hai-Wei, and that anyway he hadn't enjoyed a decent swim for far too long.

There is unfortunately little room for doubt that the new and voracious species of sharks (which Japanese patriotism had spent such enormous sums in breeding) is responsible for the fact that he has never again been heard of.

The Mikado wept; but, brightening up, exclaimed: "Kwaw found us a confused and angry mob; he left us a diverse, yet harmonious, republic; while let us never forget that not only have we developed men of genius in every branch of practical life, but many among us have had our equilibrium crowned by that supreme glory of humanity, realization of our identity with the great and holy Tao."

Wherewith he set aside no less than three hundred and sixty-five days in every year, and one extra day every fourth year, as days of special rejoicing.

NOTES ON: THIEN TAO

"The Way of Heaven"

OR THE SYNAGOGUE OF SATAN

(Liber XLI, Class C)

Originally published in Konx Om Pax, 1907 e.v.

Assigned to the Adeptus Major Grade of the A\A\.

At its original publication, this instruction was assigned neither a Document Class nor a catalogue number. In fact, it has never been published with official A\A\ sanction, outside of individual contemporary lineages. The formulation of the A\A\ was, in 1907, in its early stages, and these details may not have as yet been formalized. Later (in the "Syllabus" in Equinox I:10), it was designated as a Class C Document, and given the number XLI. No explanation was given for the assignment of this number.

"LIBER XLI. — Thien TAO (in Konx Om Pax).

"An advanced study of Attainment by the method of equilibrium on the ethical plane."

LIBER XLIV
THE MASS OF THE PHOENIX

The Magician, his breast bare, stands before an altar on which are his Burin, Bell, Thurible, and two of the Cakes of Light. In the Sign of the Enterer he reaches West across the Altar, and cries:

Hail Ra, that goest in thy bark
Into the caverns of the Dark!

He gives the sign of Silence, and takes the Bell, and Fire, in his hands.

East of the Altar see me stand
With light and musick in my hand!

He strikes Eleven times upon the Bell 333 - 55555 - 333 and places the Fire in the Thurible.

I strike the Bell: I light the Flame;
I utter the mysterious Name.
ABRAHADABRA

He strikes eleven times upon the Bell.

Now I begin to pray: Thou Child,
Holy Thy name and undefiled!
Thy reign is come; Thy will is done.
Here is the Bread; here is the Blood.
Bring me through midnight to the Sun!
Save me from Evil and from Good!
That Thy one crown of all the Ten
Even now and here be mine. AMEN.

He puts the first Cake on the Fire of the Thurible.

I burn the Incense-cake, proclaim
These adorations of Thy name.

He makes them as in Liber Legis, and strikes again Eleven times upon the Bell. With the Burin he then makes upon his breast the proper sign.

Behold this bleeding breast of mine
Gashed with the sacramental sign!

He puts the second Cake to the wound.

I stanch the Blood; the wafer soaks
It up, and the high priest invokes!

He eats the second Cake.

This Bread I eat. This Oath I swear
As I enflame myself with prayer:
"There is no grace: there is no guilt:
This is the Law: DO WHAT THOU WILT!"

He strikes Eleven times upon the Bell, and cries

ABRAHADABRA.
I entered in with woe; with mirth
I now go forth, and with thanksgiving,
To do my pleasure on the earth
Among the legions of the living.

He goeth forth.

THE COLLECTED WRITINGS OF JACK PARSONS
The Book of Babalon,
The Book of Antichrist,
and other writings


PART ONE
THE BOOK OF BABALON

January 4 - March 4, 1946 E.V.

INTRODUCTION

This book contains the record of a magical experiment relating to the invocation of an elemental, the thereafter of the Goddess or Force called BABALON, and the results thereof. An appendix con- tains some details of the method, published for the first time. The contents should be clear enough to those who are prepared for understanding, and a little study and effort should make it so for those who desire understanding. For the rest, each will no doubt interpret it in accord with his own predilections.

A note on the underlying philosophy. The present age is under the influence of the force called, in magical terminology, Horus. This force relates to fire, Mars, and the sun, that is, to power, violence, and energy. It also relates to a child, being innocent (i.e. undifferentiated). Its manifestations may be noted in the destruction of old institutions and ideas, the discovery and liberation of new energies, and the trend towards power governments, war, homosexuality, infantilism, and schizophrenia.

This force is completely blind, depending upon the men and women in whom it manifests and who guide it. Obviously, its guidance now tends towards catastrophy.

The catastrophic trend is due to our lack of understanding of our own natures. The hidden lusts, fears, and hatreds resulting from the warping of the love urge, which underly the natures of all Western peoples, have taken a homicidal and suicidal direction.

This impasse is broken by the incarnation of another sort of force, called BABALON. The nature of this force relates to love, understanding, and dionysian freedom, and is the necessary coun- terbalance or correspondence to the manifestation of Horus.

It is indicated that this force is actually incarnate in some living woman, as the result of the described magical operation. A more basic matter, however, is the indication that this force is incarnate in all men and women, and needs only to be invoked to free the spirit from the debris of the old aeon, and to direct the blind force of Horus into constructive channels of under- standing and love. The methods of this invocation are described in the text.

The background of this material may be found in the Book of the Law, the Comment thereon, and other writings of Aleister Crowley; also in various magical, anthropological, psychological, and philosophical texts. These are all necessary to an understanding and use of the material.

One further point. It should be remembered that all human activi- ties, after the vital functions are fulfilled, arise from the need to love or to be loved. It is therfore quite literally true that in understanding (i.e. that which embraces all categories of love) is all power given. A grasp of the principle of bipolarity should make this clear.

With this crude and rudimentary philosophical discourse, then, I present the Book of Babalon:

A. CONCEPTION

In January 1946 I had been engaged in the study and practice of Magick for seven years, and in the supervision and operation of an occult lodge for four years, having been initiated into the Sanctuary of the Gnosis by the Beast 666, Fra. 132, and Fra. Saturnus. At this time I decided upon a Magical operation de- signed to obtain the assistance of an elemental mate. This is a well known procedure in Magick (cf. Ch. VIII in Magick in Theory and Practice), consisting of the invocation of a spirit or ele- mental into tangible existence by various magical techniques.

I decided upon the use of the Enochian Tablets obtained by Dr. Dee and Edward Kelley, employing the *n*n*n square of the Air Tablet. The technique was approximately as follows:

(January 4, 1946, 9:00 PM)

1. Prepared and consecrated Air Dagger. (The other magical weap- ons were previously prepared. This dagger served as the special talisman of the operation.) 2. Prepared Enochian Air Tablet on virgin parchment. 3. Prepared Parchment Talisman 4. Rituals as follows: (a) Invoking Pentagram of Air. (b) Invocation of Bornless One. (c) Conjuration of Air. (d) Consecration of Air Dagger. (e) Key Call of third Aire. (f) Invocation of God and King of Aire. (g) Invocation of Six Seniors. (h) Invocation of (RZDA) by *n*n*n and (EXARP), to visible ap- pearance. (i) Invocaton of wand with material basis on talisman. (j) Invocation with dagger. (k) License to depart, purification, and banishing. I followed this procedure for eleven days, from January 4 to 15, with the following entries in my record: January 5. A strong windstorm beginning suddenly about the middle of the first invocation. Jan 6. Invoked as before. Wind storm continued intermittently all day and night. Jan 7. Invoked twice. Wind subsided. Used Prokofief Violin Con- certo No. 2 as musical background. Jan 8. Invoked twice, using blood. Jan 9. Invoked twice, replenishing material basis. Jan 10. Invoked twice. I retired about 11 PM, and was awakened at 12 PM by nine strong, rapid knocks. A table lamp at the opposite corner of the room was thrown violently to the floor and broken. There was no window in this corner, and no wind was blowing at the time.

(Note. I have had little experience with phenomena of this sort. Magically speaking, it usually represents "breaks" in the opera- tion, indicating imperfect technique. Actually, in any magical opeation there should be no phenomena but the willed result.)

Jan 11. Invoked twice, using blood.

Jan 12. Invoked twice. A heavy windstorm.

Jan 13. Invoked twice. Windstorm continued.

Jan 14. The light system of the house failed about 9 PM. Another magician who had been staying at the house and studying with me, was carrying a candle across the kitchen when he was struck strongly on the right shoulder, and the candle knocked out of his hand. He called us, and we observed a brownish yellow light about seven feet high in the kitchen.

I banished with a magical sword, and it disappeared. His right arm was paralyzed for the rest of the night.

Jan 15. Invoked twice. At this time the Scribe developed some sort of astral vision, describing in detail an old enemy of mine of whom he had never heard, and later the guardian forms of Isis and the Archangel Michael. Later, in my room, I heard the raps again, and a buzzing, metallic voice crying "let me go free." I felt a great pressure and tension in the house that night, which was also noticed by the other occupants. There was no other phenomena, and I admit a feeling of disappointment.

The feeling of tension and unease continued for four days. Then, on January 18, at sunset, while the Scribe and I were on the Mojave desert, the feeling of tension suddenly snapped. I turned to him and said, "it is done," in absolute certainty that the operation was accomplished. I returned home, and found a young woman answering the requirements waiting for me. She is describa- ble as an air of fire type with bronze red hair, fiery and sub- tle, determined and obstinate, sincere and perverse, with ex- traordinary personality, talent, and intelligence.

During the period of January 19 to February 27 I invoked the Goddess BABALON with the aid of my magical partner, as was proper to one of my grade.

B. COMMUNICATIONS

On February 27 my magical partner went East for a visit, and on Feb. 28 I went back to the Mojave, invoking BABALON. During this invocation, the presence of the Goddess came upon me, and I was commanded to write the following communication:

LIBER 49

1. Yea, it is I, BABALON. 
2. And this is my book, that is the fourth chapter of the Book of the Law, He completing the Name, for I am out of NUIT by HORUS, the incestuous sister of RA-HOOR-KHUIT. 
3. It is BABALON. TIME IS. Ye fools. 
4. Thou hast called me, oh accursed and beloved fool. 
5-8. (Missing and presumed lost. Ed.) 
9. Now know that I, BABALON, would take flesh and come among men. 
10. I will come as a penelous (sic) flame, as a devious song, a trumpet in judgement halls, a banner before armies. 
11. And gather my children unto me, for THE TIME is at hand. 
12. And this is the way of my incarnation. Heed! 
13. Thou shalt offer all thou art and all thou hast at my altar, witholding nothing. And thou shalt be smitten full sore and thereafter thou shalt be outcast and accursed, a lonely wanderer in abominable places. 
14. Ye Dare. I have asked of none other, nor have they asked. Else is vain. But thou hast willed it. 
15. Know then that thus I came to thee before, thou a great Lord, and I a maid enrapt. Ah blind folly. 
16. And thereafter madness, all in vain. Thus it has been, multi- form. How thou hast burned beyond. 
17. I shall come again, in the form thou knowest. Now it shall be thy blood. 
18. The altar is aright, and the robe. 
19. The perfume is sandal, and the cloth green and gold. There is my cup, our book, and thy dagger. 
20. There is a flame. 
21. The sigil of devotion. Be it consecrated, be it true, be it daily affirmed. I am not scorned. Thy love is to me. Procure a disk of copper, in diameter three inches paint thereon the field blue the star gold of me, BABALON. 
22. It shall be my talisman. Consecrate with the supreme rituals of the word and the cup. 
23. My calls as thou knowest. All love songs are of me. Also seek me in the Seventh Aire. 
24. This for a time appointed. Seek not the end, I shall instruct thee in my way. But be true. Would it be hard if I were thy lover, and before thee? But I am thy lover and I am with thee. 
25. I shall provide a vessel, when or whence I say not. Seek her not, call her not. Let her declare. Ask nothing. Keep silence. There shall be ordeals. 
26. My vessel must be perfect. This is the way of her perfection. 
27. The working is of nine moons. 
28. The Astarte working, with music and feasting, with wine and all arts of love. 
29. Let her be dedicated, consecrated, blood to blood, heart to heart, mind to mind, single in will, none without the circle, all to me. 
30. And she shall wander in the witchwood under the Night of Pan, and know the mysteries of the Goat and the Serpent, and of the children that are hidden away. 
31. I will provide the place and the material basis, thou the tears and blood. 
32. Is it difficult, between matter and spirit? For me it is ecstacy and agony untellable. But I am with thee. I have large strength, have thou likewise. 
33. Thou shalt prepare my book for her instruction, also thou shalt teach that she may have captains and adepts in her service. Yea, thou shalt take the black pilgrimage, but it will not be thou that returnest. 
34. Let her prepare her work according to my voice in her heart, with thy book as guide, and none other instructing. 
35. And let her be in all things wise, and sure, and excellent. 
36. But let her think on this: my way is not in the solemn ways, or in the reasoned ways, but in the wild free way of the eagle, and the devious way of the serpent, and the oblique way of the factor unknown and unnumbered. 
37. For I am BABALON, and she my daughter, unique, and there shall be no other women like her. 
38. In My Name shall she have all power, and all men and excel- lent things, and kings and captains and the secret ones at her command. 
39. The first servants are chosen in secret, by my force in her--a captain, a lawyer, an agitator, a rebel--I shall provide. 
40. Call me, my daughter, and I shall come to thee. Thou shalt be full of my force and fire, my passion and power shall surround and inspire thee; my voice in thee shall judge nations. 
41. None shall resist thee, whom I lovest. Though they call thee harlot and whore, shameless, false, evil, these words shall be blood in their mouths, and dust thereafter. 
42. But my children will know thee and love thee, and this will make them free. 
43. All is in thy hands, all power, all hope, all future. 
44. One came as a man, and was weak and failed. 
45. One came as a woman, and was foolish, and failed. 
46. But thou art beyond man and woman, my star is in thee, and thou shalt avail. 
47. Even now thy hour strikes upon the clock of my FATHER. For He prepared a banquet and a Bridal Bed. I was that Bride, appointed from the beginning, as it was written T.O.P.A.N. 
48. Now is the hour of birth at hand. Now shall my adept be crucified in the Basilisk abode. 49. Thy tears, thy sweat, thy blood, thy semen, thy love, thy faith shall provide. Ah, I shall drain thee like the cup that is of me, BABALON. 
50. Stand thou fast, and I shall pass the first veil to speak with thee, through the stars shake. 51. Stand thou fast, and I shall pass the second veil, while God and Jesus be smitten with the sword of HORUS. 
52. Stand thou fast, and I shall pass the third veil, and the shapes of hell shall be turned again to loveliness. 
53. For thy sake shall I stride through the flames of Hell, though my tongue be bitten through. 
54. Let me behold thee naked and lusting after me, calling upon my name. 
55. Let me receive all thy manhood within my Cup, climax upon climax, joy upon joy. 
56. Yea, we shall conquer death and Hell together. 
57. And the earth is mine. 
58. Thou shalt (make the?) Black Pilgrimage. 
59. Yea it is even I BABALON and I SHALL BE FREE. Thou fool, be thou also free of sentimentality. Am I thy village queen and thou a sophomore, that thou shouldst have thy nose in my buttocks? 
60. It is I, BABALON, ye fools, MY TIME is come, and this my book that my adept prepares is the book of BABALON. 
61. Yea, my adept, the Black Pilgrimage. Thou shalt be accursed, and this is the nature of the curse. Thou shalt publish the secret matter of the adepts thou knowest, witholding no word of it, in an appendix to this my Book. So they shall cry fool, liar, sot, traducer, betrayer. Thou art not glad thou meddled with magick? 
62. There is no other way, dear fool, it is the eleventh hour. 
63. The seal of my Brother is upon the earth, and His Avatar is before you. There is threshing of wheat and a trampling of grapes that shall not cease until the truth be known unto the least of men. 
64. But you who do not accept, you who see beyond, reach out your hands my children and reap the world in the hour of your harvest. 
65. Gather together in the covens as of old, whose number is eleven, that is also my number. Gather together in public, in song and dance and festival. Gather together in secret, be naked and shameless and rejoice in my name. 
66. Work your spells by the mode of my book, practicing secretly, inducing the supreme spell. 
67. The work of the image, and the potion and the charm, the work of the spider and the snake, and the little ones that go in the dark, this is your work. 
68. Who loves not hates, who hates fears, let him taste fear. 
69. This is the way of it, star, star. Burning bright, moon, witch moon. 
70. You the secret, the outcast, the accursed and despised, even you that gathered privily of old in my rites under the moon. 
71. You the free, the wild, the untamed, that walk now alone and forlorn. 
72. Behold, my Brother cracks the world like a nut for your eating. 
73. Yea, my Father has made a house for you, and my Mother has prepared a Bridal Bed. My Brother has confounded your enemies. 
74. I am the Bride appointed. Come ye to the nuptials--come ye now! 
75. My joy is the joy of eternity, and my laughter is the drunken laughter of a harlot in the house of ecstasy. 
76. All you loves are sacred, pledge them all to me. 
77. Set my star upon your banners and go forward in joy and victory. None shall deny you, and none shall stand before you, because of the Sword of my Brother. Invoke me, call upon me, call me in your convocations and rituals, call upon me in your loves and battles in my name BABALON, wherein is all power given!

C. BIRTH

[March 2, 1946 E.V.]

On March 1 and 2 1946 I prepared the altar and equipment in accordance with the instructions in Liber 49. The Scribe had been away about a week, and knew nothing of my invocations of BABALON, which I had kept entirely secret. On the night of March 2 he returned, and described a vision he had that evening of a savage and beautiful woman riding naked on a great cat-like beast. He was impressed with the urgent necessity of giving me some message or communication. We prepared magically for this communication, constructing a temple at the altar with the analysis of the key word. He was robed in white, carrying the lamp, and I in black, hooded, with the cup and dagger. At his suggestion we played Rachmanninoff's Isle of the Dead as background music, and set an automatic recorder to transcribe any audible occurrences. At approximately 8 PM he began to dictate, I transcribing directly as I received.

THE SCRIBE: "The Angel of TARO. A three day retirement to greet her. Purify thyself. The symbol is seven by three. It is BABALON. Keep secret. The communications are sacred."

"These are the preparations. Green gold cloth, food for the Beast, upon a hidden platter, back of the altar. Disclose only when the doors are bolted."

"Transgression is death."

"Back of main altar. Prepare instantly. Light the first flame at 10 PM, March 2, 1946."

"The year of BABALON is 4063."

"Beware of the use of profaned rituals."

"She is flame of life, power of darkness, she destroys with a glance, she may take thy soul. She feeds upon the death of men."

"Beautiful--Horrible."

The Scribe, now pale and sweating, rested awhile, then continued:

[The First Ritual]

"The first ritual. Tomorrow the second ritual. Concentrate all force and being in Our Lady BABALON. Light a single light on Her altar, saying: Flame is Our Lady, flame is Her hair. I am flame."

"A plate of food, unsalted. An altar cloth hitherto undefiled."

"Make a box of blackness at ten o'clock. Smear the vessel which contains flame with thine own blood. Destroy at the altar a thing of value. Remain in perfect silence, and heed the voice of Our Lady. Speak not of this ritual or of Her coming to any person. If asked, answer in a manner that avoids suspicion. Nor speculate at any time as to Her future mortal identity. To receive flatter- ing communications to thy damnation. Press not to receive teach- ings beyond those given."

"Questions: you may ask but three. Spend one half hour in compos- ing these at 11:30 PM. The answers must be written at midnight."

"Thou shalt take the alkahest in thine own mouth, and in the box of darkness carefully store this matter."

"Display thyself to Our Lady; dedicate thy organs to Her, dedi- cate thy heart to Her, dedicate thy mind to Her, dedicate thy soul to Her, for She shall absorb thee, and thou shalt become living flame before She incarnates. For it shall be through you alone, and no one else can help in this endeavour."

"It is lonely, it is awful."

"Retire from human contact until noon tomorrow. Clear all profane documents on the morrow, before receiving further instructions. Consult no book but thine own mind. Thou art a god. Behave at this altar as one god before another. And so be prosperity."

"Thou art the guardian and thou art the guide, thou art the worker and the mechanic. So conduct thyself. Discuss nothing of this matter until thou art certain that thine understanding embraces all."

Here the Scribe ceased dictation. I proceeded to follow these instructions and those of March 1, utilizing the following ritu- als. I include the rituals used in the operation of the first night, in order to indicate the nature of the Force invoked.

1
[The First Invocation]

The temple is opened with the analysis of the key word:

I N R I. Yod Nun Resh Yod. Virgo Isis Mighty Mother. Scorpio Apophis Destroyer. Sol, Osiris slain and risen. IAO. The sign of Osiris slain (given). The sign of the mourning of Isis (given). The sign of Apophis and Typhon (given). LVX, Lux, the Light of the Cross.

The invoking hexagram is drawn in the four quarters and the name ARARITA vibrated in each quarter. In closing, the hexagram is reversed.

2
The [Second] Invocation
(From the Gnostic Mass)

THE PRIEST

"O circle of stars whereof our Father is but the younger brother, marvel beyond imagination, soul of infinite space, before whom time is ashamed, the mind bewildered, and the understanding dark, not unto thee may we attain unless thine image be love. Therefore by seed and root and stem and bud and leaf and flower and fruit do we invoke thee."

BABALON

"But to love me is better than all things; if under the night stars in the desert thou presently burnest mine incense before me, invoking me with a pure heart and the serpent flame therein, thou shalt come a little to lie in my bosom. For one kiss wilt thou be willing to give all. But whoso gives one particle of dust shall lose all in that hour. Ye shall gather goods and store of women and spices; ye shall wear rich jewels; ye shall exceed the nations of earth in splendour and pride; but always in the love of me, and so shall ye come to my joy. I charge you earnestly to come before me in a single robe, and covered with a rich head- dress. I love you! I yearn to you! Pale or purple, veiled or voluptuous, I who am all pleasure and purple and drunkenness of the innermost sense, desire you. Put on the wings, and arouse the coiled splendour within you: come unto me! to me! Sing the rap- turous love songs unto me! Burn to me perfume! Drink to me, for I love you! I love you! I am the blue lidded daughter of sunset, I am the naked brilliance of the voluptuous night sky. To me. To me."

3
The Third Invocation.
(From The Vision and the Voice)

CHORUS

"Glory unto the Scarlet Woman, BABALON, the Mother of Abomina- tion, that rideth upon the Beast, for She hath spilt their blood in every corner of the earth, and lo! She hath mingled it in the cup of Her whoredom."

"With the breath of Her kisses hath she fermented it, and it hath become the wine of the Sabbath; and in the Holy Assembly hath She poured it out for Her worshippers; and they have become drunken thereon, so that face to face they beheld my Father. Thus are they made worthy to partake of the mystery of this holy vessel, for the blood is the life."

"Beautiful art thou O BABALON, and desirable, for thou hast given Thyself to everything that liveth, and thy weakness hath subdued their strength. For in that union Thou didst understand. There- fore art Thou called Understanding, O BABALON, Lady of the Night."

"O my God, in one last rapture let me attain to the union of the one with the many. For She is Love, and Her Love is one, and She has divided theone love into infinite loves, and each love is one, and equal with the One, and therefore is She passed from the Assembly and the Law and the enlightenment into the anarchy of solitude and darkness. For ever thus must She veil the brilliance of Herself."

4
[The Fourth Invocation]

O BABALON, BABALON beloved, come now, partake of the sacrament, possess this shrine. Take me now! Let me be drunken on the wine of your fornications; let your kisses wanton me to death. Accept thou this sacrifice willingly given!

5
The Fifth Invocation
The Call of the Seventh Aire

Rass I Salman Paradiz Oa-Crimi Aao Ial-Pir-Gah Qui-In Enay Butmon Od I Noas Ni Paradial Casarmg Vgear Chirlan Od Zonac Luciftan Cors Ta Vaul Zirn Tol Hami Sobol Ondoh Od Miam Chis Ta Zo Od Es V-Ma-Dea Od Pi- Bliar O Phil Rit Od Miam C-Crimi Quaada. Od. O- Michaloz Oriom Bagle Papnor I Dlugam Lonshi Od Umplif V-Ge-Gi Riglied. BABALON!

6
The Sixth Invocation
(from Tannhauser by A. Crowley)

Isis art thou, and from thy life are fed
All showers and suns, all moons that wax and wane,

All stars and streams, the living and the dead,
The mystery of pleasure and of pain

Thou art the mother, thou the speaking sea

Thou art the earth, and its fertility,
Life, death, love, hatred, light, darkness return to thee

To Thee!

Hathoor am I, and to my beauty drawn
All glories of the Universe bow down,
The blossom and the mountain and the dawn

Fruits blush, and women, our creations crown
I am the priest, the sacrifice, the shrine

I the love and life of the divine
Life, death, love, hatred, light, darkness are surely mine,
Are Mine!

Venus art thou, the love and light of earth,

The wealth of kisses, the delight of tears
The barren pleasures never came to birth,

The endless infinite delight of years.
Thou art the shrine at which my long desire

Devoured me with intolerable fire.
Thou wert song, music, passion, death upon my lyre--

My lyre.

I am the Grail and I the glory now;

I am the flame and fuel of thy breast
I am the star of God upon thy brow;
*mI am the queen, enraptured and possessed,
Hide thee sweet river, welcome to thee, sea

Ocean of love that shall encompass thee
Life, death, love, hatred, light, darkness return to me--

To me!

[March 2, 1946 E.V. continued]

On the night of the first performance of these rituals, I pre- pared the altar and box and food, also flowers and wine. At the beginning of the rituals, I burnt the Enochian Tablet and smashed an image of Pan, a favorite possession. (About this time the roof on my guest house caught fire from a faulty chimney, and was partly destroyed.)

I proceeded with the rituals, noting a mounting tension, and the sense of a presence inexpressibly poignant and desirable. There was no other manifestation. At twelve PM I put the three ques- tions and received answers as follows:

1. How can I communicate directly with BABALON, hear her, see her, feel her, be sure that I am working aright?

Answer. "At the altar in meditation, as you know how. Also, invoke me carnally with all your passion. Thus will you feel my desire and increase my substance."

2. How can I serve best?

Answer. "Follow instructions exactly and in detail. Avoid loose interruptions. Be diligent. Do not hesitate or question, act. All depends on your time."

3. How can I be certain of the vehicle?

Answer. "Do not trouble yourself with this. It does not concern you. I will provide the vehicle, I will show you a sign, and signs. It is the now which concerns us. Keep your faith, think not overmuch."

After this an hour's meditation, and so to sleep.

[March 3, 1946 E.V.]

The next day I slipped badly. An inmate of the house disturbed my morning meditation. I opened the door and cursed him (in the Anglo Saxon fashion). Shortly after he was taken ill, and I succumbed to a black mood. I perceived my terrible error, and apologized to him, mentally withdrawing the curse. However, the day went very badly for me. That evening the Scribe and I resumed our work. In a short time the dictation began:

"In the presence of our Lord PAN, at the feet of Our Lady BABA- LON, at the feet of Her (servants?) (changing?) we declare unto thee this message (consecrated, dedicated, never to be defiled?) (the Scribe was uncertain here) containing the rituals of the second and third days, of the welcome and preparation in the Name of Our Lady of the Night most gracious, to pure lewd and whore- some Lady BABALON. Oh thou who art mortal tremble; given it is unto thee a feat never before performed in the annals of your histories, never before accomplished successfully. Many have dared, none succeeded."

"Our Lady BABALON must descend to triumph."

"Mortality. We have not asked this of another, nor shall we ever. Even now we doubt thy faith. Is this accepted, are you willing to proceed. Answer aloud."

Answer. "I am willing."

"Then know thou art already faulty in thy delivery. These are ex- traneous things. The elemental was not properly released," (this was corrected) "thou wert guilty of human rage, the current of force has been disturbed. Beware, should'st thou falter again, we will sure slay thee."

"But insofar as thy working was consecrated it has succeeded. Rectify thy mortal fault and error. Consecrate all. Now receive the second and third rituals."

The Second Ritual

[March 3, 1946 E.V. continued]

"Consecrate thyself as instructor of Our Lady Incarnate."

"Take the black box, concentrate upon its emptiness for one hour, gaze into it, and thou wilt see, imprinted upon it, a shape, a sign, a sacred design, which shall be the sign delivered by Our Lady Babalon Incarnate. When thou hast finished, when thou hast recognized this pattern, construct it in wood."

"This is the sigil."

"Ten be the hour appointed. Invoke long, to music indicated." [...] (This I keep secret.) "When thou canst feel Our Lady incar- nate in thy being, take the black box and perform the consecrated rite. "Wear thou scarlet, symbolic of birth. Be sashed in black. It matters not the quality of goods. Take then the box, make then the sign."

"Paint upon it a second sign which thou knowest. If thou hast forgotten, gaze into thy crystal."

"Meditate while gazing on the qualities of an instructor. Thou shalt inscribe in Her book, for Her guidance."

"Thou art forbidden to leave thy room."

"The end of the second ritual."

At the end of this dictation, the Scribe showed signs of exhaus- tion. He rested awhile, then we continued:

The Third Ritual

[March 3 1946 E.V. continued]

"Begin four hours prior to dawn."

"A period of eradication of all inimical influences. Complete perfection. Wear black. Cut from thy breast the red star. Renew the blood. Lay out a white sheet. Place upon it blood of birth, since She is born of thy flesh, and by thy mortal power upon earth."

"Thou shalt recognize by the sign. BABALON is born! It is new birth, all things are changed, the signs, the symbols, the every- thing!"

"Thou shalt compass with the aid of the muse suitable invocation of the birth of BABALON, and this thou shalt deliver to the flames which now burn too."

"Now thou shalt flame the third, chanting the invocation. She is born in the third flame."

"In verse seven verses of seven lines, seven magick words. Stand and chant seven times. Envision thyself as a cloaked radiance desirable to the Goddess, beloved. Envision Her approaching thee. Embrace Her, cover Her with kisses. Think upon the lewd lascivi- ous things thou couldst do. All is good to BABALON. ALL.

"Then rest, meditating on this:"

"Thou as a man and as a god hast strewn about the earth and in the heavens many loves, these recall, concentrate, consecrate each woman thou hast raped. Remember her, think upon her, move her into BABALON, bring her into BABALON, each, one by one until the flame of lust is high."

"Then compose a verse of undetermined lines on this, to BABALON. This verse shall be used in worship when she appears."

"Then meditate upon thy desire, think upon Her, and, touching naught, chant these verses. Recall each lascivious moment, each lustfull day, all set them into the astral body, touching naught."

"Preserve the material basis."

(Question: "In the box?" Answer: "Yes.")

"The lust is hers, the passion yours. Consider thou the Beast raping."

"Leave thy casual loves--all belongs to BABALON, thy lust is BABALON's. She is with thee three days. The sign is hers, secret, and no man knows its correspondence. Guard!"

The next section contains a prophecy which I shall not write here.

There follows the indicated invoking poem.

The Birth of Babalon

What is the tumult among the stars
that have shone so still till now?
What are the furrows of pain and wrath
upon the immortal brow?

Why is the face of God turned grey
and his angels all grown white?
What is the terrible ruby star
that burns down the crimson night?

What is the beauty that flames so bright
athwart the awful dawn?
She has taken flesh, she is come to judge
the thrones ye rule upon.

Quail ye kings for an end is come
in the birth of BABALON.

I have walked three dreadful nights away
in halls beyond despair,
I have given marrow and tears and sweat
and blood to make her fair.

I have lain my love and smashed my heart
and filled her cup with blood,
That blood might flow from the loins of woe
to the cup of brotherhood.

The cities reel in the shout of steel
where the sword of war is drawn.
Sing ye saints for the day is come
in the birth of BABALON.

Now God has called for his judgement book
and seen his name therein
And the grace of God and the guilt of God
have spelt it out as sin

His bloody priests have clutched his robes
and stained his linen gown
And his victims swarm from his broken hell
to drag his kingdom down.

O popes and kings and the little gods
are sick and sad and wan
To see the crimson star that bursts
like blood upon the dawn

While trumpets sound and stars rejoice
at the birth of BABALON.

BABALON is too beautiful
for sight of mortal eyes
She has hidden her loveliness away
in lonely midnight skies,

She has clothed her beauty in robes of sin
and pledged her heart to swine
And loving and giving all she has
brewed for saints immortal wine.

But now the darkness is riven through
and the robes of sin are gone,
And naked she stands as a terrible blade
and a flame and a splendid song

Naked in radiant mortal flesh
at the Birth of BABALON.

She is come new born as a mortal maid
forgetting her high estate,
She has opened her arms to pain and death
and dared the doom of fate,

And death and hell are at her back,
but her eyes are bright with life,
Her heart is high and her sword is strong
to meet the deadly strife,

Her voice is sure as the judgement trump
to crack the house of wrong,
Though walls are high and stone is hard
and the rule of hell was long

The gates shall fall and the irons break
in the Birth of BABALON.

Her mouth is red and her breasts are fair
and her loins are full of fire,
And her lust is strong as a man is strong
in the heat of her desire,

And her whoredom is holy as virtue is foul
beneath the holy sky,
And her kisses will wanton the world away
in passion that shall not die.

Ye shall laugh and love and follow her dance
when the wrath of God is gone
And dream no more of hell and hate
in the Birth of BABALON.

PART TWO

THE BOOK OF ANTICHRIST

The Black Pilgrimage Now it came to pass even as BABALON told me, for after receving Her Book I fell away from Magick, and put away Her Book and all pertaining thereto. And I was stripped of my fortune (the sum of about $50,000) and my house, and all I Possessed.

Then for a period of two years I worked in the world, recouping my fortune somewhat. But that was also taken from me, and my reputation, and my good name in my worldly work, that was in science.

And on the 31st of October, 1948, BABALON called on me again, and I began the last work, that was the work of the wand. And I worked for 17 days, until BABALON called me in a dream, and instructed me on an astral working. Then I reconstructed the temple, and began the Black Pilgrimage, as She instructed.

And I went into the sunset with Her sign, and into the night past accursed and desolate places and cyclopean ruins, and so came at last to the City of Chorazin. And there a great tower of Black Basalt was raised, that was part of a castle whose further bat- tlements reeled over the gulf of stars. And upon the tower was this sign

And one heavily robed and veiled showed me the sign, and told me to look, and hehold, I saw flash below me four past lives wherein I had failed in my object. And I beheld the life of Simon Magus, preaching the Whore Helena as the Sophia, and I saw that my failure was in Hubris, the pride of the spirit. And I saw my life as Giles de Retz, wherein I attempted to raise Jehanne Darc to be Queen of the Witchcraft, and failed through her stupidity, and again my pride. And I saw myself in Francis Hepburne, Earl Both- well, manipulating Gellis Duncan, that was an unworthy instru- ment. And again as Count Cagliostro, failing because I failed to comprehend the nature of women in my Seraphina. And I was shown myself as a boy of 13 in this life, invoking Satan and showing cowardice when He appeared. And I was asked: "Will you fail again?" and I replied "I will not fail." (For I had given all my blood to BABALON, and it was not I that spoke.)

And thereafter I was taken within and saluted the Prince of that place, and thereafter things were done to me of which I may not write, and they told me, "It is not certain that you will sur- vive, but if you survive you will attain your true will, and manifest the Antichrist.

And thereafter I returned and swore the Oath of the Abyss, having only the choice between madness, suicide, and that oath. But the Oath in no wise ameliorated that terror, and I continued in the madness and horror of the abyss for a season. But of this no more. But having passed the ordeal of 40 days I took the oath of a Magister Templi, even the Oath of Antichrist before Frater 132, the Unknown God.

And thus was I Antichrist loosed in the world; and to this I am pledged, that the work of the Beast 666 shall be fulfilled, and the way for the coming of BABALON be made open and I shall not cease or rest until these things are accomplished. And to this end I have issued this my Manifesto.

The Manifesto of the Antichrist

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

I, BELARION, ANTICHRIST, in the year 1949 of the rule of the Black Brotherhood called Christianity, do make my Manifesto to all men. And I, THE ANTICHRIST, come among you, saying:

An end to the pretence, and lying hypocrisy of Christianity.

An end to the servile virtues, and superstitious restrictions.

An end to the slave morality.

An end to prudery and shame, to guild and sin, for these are of the only evil the sun, that is fear.

An end to all authority that is not based on courage and manhood, to the authority of lying priests, conniving judges, blackmailing police, and

An end to the servile flattery and cajolery of mods, the corona- tions of mediocraties, the ascension of dolts.

An end to restriction and inhibition, for I, THE ANTICHRIST, am come among you preaching the Word of the BEAST 666, which is, "There is no law beond Do what thou wilt."

And I, BELARION, ANTICHRIST, do lift up my voice and prophecy, and I say:

I shall bring all men to the law of the BEAST 666, and in His law I shall conquer the world.

And within seven years of this time, BABALON, THE SCARLET WOMAN HILARION will manifest among ye, and bring this my work to its fruition.

An end to consciption, compulsion, regimentation, and the tyranny of false laws.

And within nine years a nation shall accept the Law of the BEAST 666 in my name, and that nation will be the first nation of earth.

And all who accept me the ANTICHRIST and the law of the BEAST 666, shall be accursed and their joy shall be a thousandfold greater than the false joys of the false saints.

And in my name BELARION shall they work miracles, and confound our enemies, and none shall stand before us.

Therefore I, THE ANTICHRIST call upon all the Chosen and elect and upon all men, come forth now in the name of Liberty, that we may end for ever the tyranny of the Black Brotherhood.

Witness my hand and seal on this [...] day of [...] 1949, that is the year of BABALON 4066.

Love is the law, love under will.

Belarion, Antichrist



ANALYSIS BY

A MASTER OF THE TEMPLE

of the Critical Nodes

in the Experience of

his Material Vehicle

"I shall regard all phenomena as the particular dealing of God with my soul."

I. Birth

Oct. 2, 1914, Los Angeles, in , rising in midheaven, in favorable conjunc., at apehelion. I chose this constellation in order that you might have an innate sense of balance and ultimate justice, responsive and attractive nature, a bountiful environment and sense of royalty and largesse, strength, courage and power combined with cunning and intelligence. Saturn was bound in order that you might easily formulate a lower will which would have satisfied and overwhelmed you with its spectacular success.

Your father separated from your mother in order that you might grow up with a hatred of authority and a spirit of revolution necessary to my work. The Oedipus complex was needed to formulate the love of witchcraft which would lead you into magick, with the influence of your grandfather active to prevent too complete an identification with your mother.

II. Childhood

Your isolation as a child developed the necessary background of literature and scholarship; and the unfortunate experiences with other children the requisite contempt for the crowd and for the group mores. You will note that these factors developed the needful hatred for christianity (without implanting a christian guilt sense) at an extremely early age.

III. Adolescence

Early adolescence continued the development of the necessary combinations. The awakening interest in chemistry and science prepared the counterbalance for the coming magical awakening, the means of obtaining prestige and livelihood in the formative period, and the scientific method necessary for my manifestation. The magical fiasco at the age of 16 was needful to keep you away from magick until you were sufficiently matured.

IV. Youth

The loss of family fortune developed your sense of self reliance at a critical period, the contact with reality at this time was essential. Your early marriage with Helen served to break your family ties and effect a transference to her, away from a danger- ous attachment to your mother. The experience at Halifax and Cal Tech served to strengthen your self reliance, scientific method and material powers. The influence of Tom Rose at this period, as that of Ed. Forman in adolescence, was essential in developing the male center.

V. Later Youth

The house on Terrace Drive, Music, Lynn, Curtis, and Gloria, and the increasing restlessness were, of course, all preparations for the meeting with A A and O.T.O. The alternate repulsion and attraction you felt the first year after meeting Fra. 132 were caused by a subconscious resistance against the ordeals ahead. Had you had these experiences before, without such resistance, you would have become hopelessly unbalanced. Betty served to effect a transference from Helen at a critical period. Had this not occurred your repressed homosexual component could have caused a serious disorder.

Your passion for Betty also gave you the magical force needed at the time, and the act of adultery tinged with incest, served as your magical confirmation in the Law of Thelema.

At this time the O.T.O. was an excellent training school for adepts, but hardly an appropriate Order for the manifestation of Thelema. Therefore, in spite of your motto you were not able to formulate your Will. The experience with the O.T.O. and Aerijet were needed to dispel your romanticism, self-deception, and reliance on others. Betty was one link in the process designed to tear you away from the now unneeded Oedipus complex, the overval- uation of women and romantic love. Since this was unconscious, the next step was to bring it into consciousness, and there to destroy it.

VI. Early Maturity

The final experience with Hubbard and Betty, and the O.T.O. was necessary to overcome your false and infantile reliance on oth- ers, although this was only partially accomplished at the time. The invocation of Babalon served to exteriorize the Oedipus complex; at the same time, because of the forces involved it produced extraordinary magical effects. However, this operation is accomplished and closed--you should have nothing more to do with it--nor even think of it, until Her manifestation is re- vealed, and proved beyond the shadow of a doubt. Even then, you must be circumspect--although I hope to take complete charge before then.

Candy appeared in answer to your call, in order to wean you from wet nursing. She has demonstrated the nature of woman to you in such unequivocal terms that you should have no further room for illusion on the subject.

The suspension and inquisition was my opportunity--one of the final links in the chain. At this time you were enabled to pre- pare your thesis, formulate your Will, and take the Oath of the Abyss, thus making it possible (although only partially) to manifest. The exit of Candy prepares for the final stage of your initial preparation.

VII. Conclusions

The numerous rituals you have performed have resulted in a well developed body of light. The ordeals have purged most of the emotional and mental garbage--your only real dangers are, and have ever been, sentimentality, weakness, and procrastination.

It is interesting to note that the first weapon you formulated was the Lamp of the Spirit, in the invocation to Pan (although the Sword was prefigured). Next the Sword in the Horus ritual, as was appropriate to your intellectual development at that time.

Then the Cup out of the wine of your emotional life--the disk out of material failure. The Sword remains to be manifested.

You will note that it has been impossible to truly formulate your Will with any of these weapons--naturally--that is only possible with the wand. On the other hand, if you had done so previously, you would have been unbalanced by the lack of initiated prepara- tion. It is a right and natural procedure; the True Will cannot be truly formulated until you are initiate in all the other planes, and it is well to make no pretense of doing so. Until that point all you can known of the true will is the aspiration to the next step--towards further experience. That is the glory of the Law of Thelema--DO!

The physical and emotional stresses you feel at present are a result of the pull of the Abyss--your present poetry is indica- tive. Naturally you find no power in any spell, no comfort in any ritual, no hope in any action. You are cut off by your own oath. Nor can I or any other aid you at this time. There is only manhood, only will, only the vector of your own tendencies, developed through the aeons of the past. I do not say how long the state will last, or what the outcome may be.

However, I can formulate some rules which may serve to guide you.

VIII. Instructions

A. Works of the Wand--of the Will alone avail in this state. No other weapon should be used, no other ritual save the hymn to the Unnamed One in the Anthem of the Mass.

B. You should be meticulous in all observations pertaining to the Will, even the most petty. Fulfill all obligations and promises, undertake nothing which you cannot fulfill, be prompt in the discharge of each responsibility.

C. Be neat in your personal and domestic habits, indicate your selfrespect to yourself.

D. Do not become unduly involved with any person, and practice all your hard-earned wisdom in your relations with women.

E. Set up your personal affairs in business order. Keep your accounts current and your papers neatly filed.

F. Finish your poetry for publication. Finish the synthesis of the Tarot and start work on the preparation of the lessons of class instruction from your book.

G. Pay no attention to any phenomena whatsoever, and continue in a sober and responsible way of life under all circumstances.

Not magical! For you nothing is more magical. Only thus can the curse of Saturn be overcome. I see you hate this way. But it is an ultimate time--it is you that have taken the oath. The choice is me or Choronzon.

I await you in the City of the Pyramids.

Belarion

8 = 3

LIBER LI
THE LOST CONTINENT

by Aleister Crowley

FORWARD

"In particular there is a sort of novel, "The Lost Continent", purporting to give an account of the civilization of Atlantis. I sometimes feel that this lacks artistic unity. At times it is a fantastic rhapsody describing my ideals of Utopian society; but some passages are a satire on the conditions of our existing civilization, while others convey hints of certain profound magical secrets, or anticipations of discoveries in science."
--- Crowley, writing of the Summer of 1913 e.v. from Confessions, p. 730.

PREFACE

Last year I was chosen to succeed the venerable K-Z --- who had it in his mind to die, that is, to join Them in Venus, as one of the Seven Heirs of Atlantis, and I have been appointed to declare, so far as may found possible, the truth about that mysterious lost land. Of course, no more than one seventh of the wisdom is ever confided to one of the Seven, and the Seven meet in council but once in every thirty-three years. But its preservation is guaranteed by the interlocked systems of "dreaming true" and of "preparation of the antinomy." The former almost explains itself; the latter is almost inconceivable to normal man. Its essence is to train a man to be anything by training him to be its opposite. At the end of anything, think they, it turns out to be its opposite, and that opposite is thus mastered without having been soiled by the labours of the student, and without the false impressions of early learning being left upon the mind.

I myself, for example, had unknowingly been trained to record these observations by the life of a butterfly. All my impressions came clear on the soft wax of my brain; I had never worried because the scratch on the wax in no way resembled the sound it represented. In other words, I observed perfectly because I never knew that I was observing. So, if you pay sufficient attention to your heart, you will make it palpitate.

I accordingly proceed to a description of the country.

"Aleister Crowley"

I

OF THE PLAINS BENEATH ATLAS, AND ITS SERVILE RACE.

Atlas is the true name of this archipelago --- continent is an altogether false term, for every "house" or mountain peak was cut from its fellows by natural, though often very narrow waterways. The African Atlas is a mere offshoot of the range. It was the true Atlas that supported the ancient world by its moral and magical strength, and hence the name of the fabled globe-bearer. The root is the Lemurian "Tla" or "Tlas", black, for reasons which will appear in due course. "A" is the feminine prefix, derived from the shape of the mouth when uttering the sound. "Black woman" is therefore as near a translation as one can give in English; the Latin has aendered of the Virgin ("L") and the Serpent ("S"). "THEOS" (root "O," first written "0") means the Sun in his strength and also the Lingam-Yoni conjoined. "CHRISTOS" is "The love of passion of the Rising Sun ("R") and the Serpent" ("S"). The "I" and "T" indicate certain details which are foreign to the present discussion. "NEUMA" (Atlantean "NM") is the "Arch of the Woman," "MARIA," the Woman of the Sun.[23] The words "MEITHRAS" and "ABRAXAS" are again derived from Atlas. "The woman entered, Lingam being conjoined with Yoni, bears the Sun from her serpent womb" and "From the womb's mouth the Sun (cometh seeking) a womb for his desire, even the womb of a serpent," the course of the year being signified in this manner, as usualy with the ancients. This plain of an idea corresponding to each letter was carried out very strictly: thus "TLA," black, means the stigma or mark of the virgin's womb, "IA" (Hail! Greeting!) "Face to Face," from the other peculiarity described above. These few examples will suffice to indicate the singular character of the language,[24] and the way in which its essential dogmatic symbols have been incorporated by the heirs of Atlas in the inmost sanctuaries of races which they deemed worthy of such assistance.

I must not pass over in silence the question of sacrifice to the gods, to which a passing reference has already been made. Such sacrifices were not very frequent; the victims were the "failures," those who were useless to the social economy.[25] As they represented capital expenditure, the object was to recover this, at least, since no interest could be expected. The victim was therefore handed over to a High Priest or Priestess, who extracted the life by an instrument devised for and excellently adapted to the purpose, so that it died of exhaustion. The life thus regained was given to "the gods" in a manner too complex to be described in this brief account.

The early age at which puberty occurred was due to design. The normal period of gestation had also been shortened to four months. This was all part of the scheme to economize time. Old age had been almost done away with by the great readiness of the Atlanteans to "go and see" at the first sign of failing power. No doubt, further improvements would have been made but for the loss of interest in the matter, all generation being regarded as "the old experiment," not likely to repay the trouble of further research. In the 200 or 300 years of a man's full vigour, only 8 years on the average was the wastage of childhood, and even this was not all waste, since some time at least must be necessary for the experts to discover and direct the tendencies of the mind. The body ought therefore to be regarded as an engine, the theoretical limit of whose efficiency had been reached.

So much I mention of the customs of the Atlanteans with regard to marriage, education and religious sacrifices.

[#23] MAR is Atlantean (also Sanscrit) for die. This word throws light on their conception of death.

[#24] Note that no tautologies defile its linguistic wells. "As I have written" is never changed to "as I have observed, noted, described, said, indicated, remarked, pointed out" and so on.

[#25] I must revert for a moment to the language. OIK, Greek "OIKOS" meant the "House of the penetrating men." NOM, Greek "NOMOS", the "arch of the House of the Women," "i.e." that which roofed them in or protected them. Hence "the law."

*************

VIII

OF THE HISTORY OF ATLAS, FROM
ITS EARLIEST ORIGINS TO THE
PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING
THE CATASTROPHE.

The origin of Atlas is lost in the obscurity of antiquity. The official religious explanation is this: "We came across the waters on the living Atla," which is pious but improbable. A mystic meaning is to be suspected. The lay historian says "We came, escaping from destruction, eight persons in a ship, bearing the living Zro." This reminds me one of later legends of presumably equal value. Poets frankly claim "We descended from heaven," and it has been seriously urged that seafarers would have preferred the plains to the rocks. The law of contrariety to Nature explains this away. Others maintain that the earliest settlers came "by air," or "through air." This must mean balloons or airplanes, as flying was not known until centuries after. What is definitely known is that the earliest settlers were of a purely fighting race.

An Atlantean Homer, Ylo, has described the first battle in such detail as to leave no doubt that he is retelling facts --- a marked contradiction to his earlier books. There appear to have been but few Atlanteans, unless the names given are those of chiefs, which internal evidence contraverts. The natives were armed with every possible instrument of precision, having cavalry and artillery in abundance, as well as weapons that must have been as superior to the modern rifle (unless Ylo exaggerates) as that is to the arquebus. In spite of this the men of Atlas "smote them with rods" or "fell upon them with their cones," and routed them utterly. This mention of rods and cones has absurdly suggested to commentators that the Atlanteans used their eyes, and hypnotized the enemy. To state such an opinion is sufficient to expose its author to the contempt of the thoughtful. Altogether 86 battles were fought, extending over five years, before the natives were reduced to sue for peace. This was granted on generous terms, which the colonists broke, as soon as they dared to do so, in accordance with the invariable rule of colonists, then as much as today. However, it was nigh on an hundred years before the first college of Magic was established. Previously the Atla had been carried about as occasion demanded. It was now enshrined with some decency of ceremonial upon a mountain. About three hundred years later we find ourselves face to face with the first great Mystery of Atlas. This is a translation of the record of that most strange event.

"Now it came to pass that all men turned black and died, and that the living Atla abode alone, bearing Mercury, whereof the Sun knoweth. Thus came again the true men of Atlas, and their women, bearing gods and goddesses. And the void suffered nothing, and the earth was at peace. Now then indeed arose Art, and men builded, being blind. And there was light, and some of the light wrought mischief. Wherefore the wise men destroyed them with their Magic, and there is no record because it is written in that which is." A sort of "Si" "monumentum quaeris, circumspice" seems here implied. In any case there were clearly two gaps unbridgeable between the early struggles of the settlers, the period of great buildings, and the modern period, which proved stable of "houses." The "houses" were only made possible by the perfecting of Zro, and this helps considerably to fix the date. The next 2500 years were years of peaceable progress; the labour-mills were run without a hitch, and the next event was the discovery of black phophorus. It had been the custom to worship the Atla with lights, and these lights had been candles of yellow phosphorus in golden sheathes. At that time the Atla was veiled. At one festival of Spring the veils were burnt up, the lights extinguished, and the yellow phosphorus was found to have been turned into the black powder. The Magicians examined this, and brought Zro to its ninth stage. This revolutionized the condition of things: old age and disease were no more, and death voluntary. Strangely enough this led directly to the Great Conspiracy.

At the end of this period of 2500 years the system of "houses" was well established. There were over 400 such "houses," each of perhaps 1000 souls on an average. These were governed by 4 "houses of houses" whose rulers took orders from the High House, at the head of which was the living Atla. The plain principle of Atla was revolution; and like all revolutionary bodies, was obliged to adopt the strictest form of autocracy. A democracy is always soddenly conservative. The only hope is to catch it in one of its moments of crazy enthusiasm, and crush it before it has time to recover. Caesar and Napoleon both did this as far as they could: Cromwell and Porfirio Diaz did the same within narrower limits.

Now a certain sophist --- for philosopher one cannot call him --- tried to enunciate a magical law to the effect that the present standard of life was all that could be desired; that further progress would be harmful, that Venus was not worth attaining, and that the sole endeavour of the Magicians should be to preserve things as they were. That such a proposition could be supposed a "law" reflects no credit on its author or its supporters. Yet of these it found many. The ninth stage of Zro was a leap calculated to unsettle the calmest mind. Its reality had begared the optimist's daydream. Poets had thrown down their stilettos.[26] High Priests who had spent decades in hopeful experiment saw their results attained by an entirely different method. In short, two thirds of the people were infected with the heresy, and hoped to hear it promulgated as a Law of Magic.

It should here be explained that every Law of Magic had its turn as the principal law of practical working, and the school supporting any law, or insisting on it, became prominent with it. Every dominant law in all history had always been made insignificant by a new discovery about Zro, or other matter of practical importance, just as the "Peace with Honour" battle-cry of Disraeli was drowned by the calculation of the cost of warships, soldiers and patriotism. Each step in Zro had consequently implied the rise to power of a new school; and the sophist was ambitious, and yet the law he wished to establish was the ruling law of the servile races.

The "law" was accordingly sent to the High House for approval. Some opposition may have been forseen, but no one was prepared for the blackness of disapproval which actually radiated, striking hearts cold. A course without precedent, no answer was vouchsafed. On the contrary, even normal communication was suspended. The houses which favoured the innovation --- 333 in numbers --- took counsel, came to the decision that it was useless to oppose the High House, and were about to acquiesce, when a woman who had once been in the presence of "To Her" rose and thought vehemently "The Living Atla is the head of our conspiracy." In other words, they were the loyalists, the Magicians of the High House the rebels. This was why they had cut themselves off, because their own head was against them. It was instantly resolved to go to the High House, and demand the custody of "To Her." Nearing the goal, however, a remnant of the ancient reverence half cowed even the ringleaders --- I may mention that five of every six of the heretics were women --- when they saw a stern phalanx of Magicians, its point threatening their centre. As they wavered, a woman cried "They are only men such as we are." The ranks stiffened; on all sides the army closed upon the tiny phalanx, which only numbered 66 all told. It was then that the truth was known. Ere a blow could be struck, the attacking party vanished;

[#26] Needle-sharp daggers of Zro in its seventh stage were used to write on the rock walls of Atlas.

*************

it was instantaneous and complete annihilation. From that moment it was certain that the ruling power in Atlas was Something[27] infinitely more awful than the Living Atla. In order to avoid any possible repetition of such a disaster --- for the Magicians of the High House knew that any manifestation of the Supreme must undo the work of centuries --- they gave out that they had become too terrible to look upon, and for the future they always appeared with heavy veils, or rather masks, since for the most part they were carven fantastically by the wearers in their leisure hours. A further alteration was made in the system of government. The head of one of the "houses of houses" was made supreme: the High House took no part in affairs of state. Thus the Atla was to all intents and purposes deposed, although the same reverence and sacrifice were paid to it as formerly. It became a "constitutional monarch," in our modern jargon.

The next thousand years were years of serious trial in other ways. The toil of repopulation was excessive, and there was a revolt or rather strike of the servile races, which was ended by the substitution of "bread from heaven" for those products of the earth on which they had formerly been fed, a diet which proved so adapted to their natures that no labour troubles ever recurred.

The Greek legends of the wars between Gods, giants, Titans are traditional of a real war or series of wars which continued with intervals over 200 years. The enemy had developed naval armament to an extreme. Their tactics were these:

1. To wipe out the servile races and so to interfere with the production of Zro.

2. To rush and destroy the High House.

The first of these met with a great deal of success, the floating rock being struck with projectiles and sunk. This occurred chiefly on the outlaying islands, where they were not too much afraid to make raids in force. They also sent epidemic disease of many kinds. Atlas was reduced to such extremity in these ways that at one time the waterways were forced and the assault on the High House was actually carried out, bombardment continuing day and night for months together. Through a misunderstanding of well known magical law, Atlanteans at that time considered themselves prohibited from employing any other defence than the rods and the cones of their forefathers; and these, it appears, were useless against machinery, or against men protected by fortification in such a way that they could not be got at from any quarter. Thus the sharklike submarines of the enemy were unassailable. The war was therefore at first entirely one-sided. A certain youthful Magician, however, resolving to die for his country if need were, decided to retaliate. He had found that Zro in its nascent state ("i.e." between the globes) had the power of bringing about endothermic reaction, seawater for example, becoming caustic soda and hydrochloric acid; and further that this acid thus produced was many thousand times more active than in its normal state. For example, the rock basins in which he conducted his first experiment dissolved as rapidly as butter under boiling oil. He then prepared a number of pairs of receiver-globes, and dropped them in the vicinity of the enemy's submarines by night. In this manner he destroyed the hulls of almost the whole fleet in a single night; and the remainder fled in panic at dawn. They returned the following year, carrying out daylight raids only and devoting themselves chiefly to destroying the labour-mills. The young magician had been rewarded for his services by being presented to the Atla, and this example encouraged others to find means of attacking the invaders. Artificial darkness was therefore invented, and combined with the former method; but this was only partially successful, the tremendous pace of the "sharks" enabling them to evade any threatening clouds. They did enormous

[#27] This matter is not for open discussion. Even at this distant date it would be dangerous to do so much even as indulge in speculation.

*************

damage, and the supplies of Zro were seriously curtailed. Things now went from bad to worse, and culminated in the attack on the High House, the besiergers keeping their battleships surrounded by rafts of fire, so that attack was impossible even by night. It was then that the High House called on the heorism of its sons. Armed with long swords of Zro, they plunged into the sea, to perish under the tooth of the "Zhee-Zhou," but not before they had time to hack the invading battleships to shreds. Their floating torch-rafts only assisted the attack by directing the swimmers to their quarry. The attack on the High House had aroused Atlas at last. A counter invasion was plotted and carried out with immediate and complete success, the enemy being exterminated, and their country not merely ravaged but destroyed by arousing the forces of earthquake. All activity of this kind however was deprecable, a recurrence was guarded against by removing the High House to the lofty mountain previously described, and a "house" was chosen to cultivate the art of war, and entrusted with the duty of destroying any living thing that might approach within a hundred miles of Atlas.

Only one other adventure of historical importance remains to be recorded. It is the attempt of some foolish Atlanteans to found an "Empire," and so to be entirely distinguished from the missionary effort referred to previously. The original settlement of Atlas, as has been the case with all flourishing colonies, was made by a few hardy pioneers, who strengthened themselves gradually by growth. But Atlas in her momentary madness poured out blood and treasure in the fatuous attempt to impose alien domination on lands utterly unsuited to the genius of the people. The idea, of course, was to increase the supply of labour and consequently of crude Zro. In the first place the adventure was expensive. It was uneconomical (in the scientific sense) to send ships with less than 1000 fighting men. The Zro required for these meant the employment of at least 7000 serviles, and the naval construction was therefore of a colossal order. But although little difficulty was found in conquering the country in the military sense, the natives had to be almost exterminated, and the labour of the survivors proved difficult to enforce. It was even then not a tenth as efficient as that of the serviles at home. The imported serviles moreover caught native diseases, and died in hundreds; and though by prodigious sacrifices the West African Empire was kept going for nearly 200 years, it had to end at last no less ingloriously than the French adventure in Mexico, or the English in India, and South Africa.[28]

The main causes were the impossibility of breeding children in a climate so unsuitable, even of maintaining their own women, and above all the fact that the crude Zro was not of a quality equal to that obtained in Atlas, and that the Zro generated by the Atlanteans themselves was not to be made at all outside their own country. The lesson was learnt. Until the end no further attempt was made to advance in any but the true direction. The great majority of the colonists returned to Atlas; but many, degenerating as is the fashion with colonists of this conquering kind, abandoned Zro for gross food, intermarried with the natives, and have generally degenerated yet further to races inferior even to the present descendants of those who were in those days the equivalents of the serviles of Atlas.

[#28] I write a little, but not much, in advance of the events. To illustrate the theory here advanced I will ask the reader to compare the results of the attempts to colonize America by (a) the whole military power of Spain at her zenith, (b) the handful of exiles in the "Mayflower."

*************

IX

OF THE CATASTROPHE,
ITS ANTECEDENTS AND
PRESUMED CAUSES.

In my remarks on Zro I have a necessarily somewhat diffuse account of the properties of this remarkable substance. It must now be made clearer that the crude Zro in its nine stages produced by the serviles, and consumed in the "houses" was in each stage of inferior quality to that of the same degree produced by the Atlanteans, and consumed by the High House. For example, the crude Zro was made in a labour-mill with all sorts of insulations. The first stage of the priest's Zro could be made anywhere and at any time, and naturally directed itself to the receptable for it without any precautions. It must, I think, be presumed that the Zro generated in the High House was again of far greater purity and potency. Very little of it can have been used in the experiments of the Magicians, and it is therefore necessary to account for enormous quantities, produced during many centuries of uninterrupted labour. I have, however, no data of any kind for this investigation; the mysteries of the High House have ever been inscrutable, and were not wholly delivered to the Heirs of Atlas. They must be rediscovered by the Magicians of the new race. It may be that in some form or other the Zro had been made stable, and used to impregnate the column which is alleged to have been driven "through the Earth"; perhaps, and less improbably, only to the depth of a few hundred miles. This column, however long it may have been, had certainly its top immediately beneath the reservoir of the High House. It had been completed about 70 years before the "catastrophe" but apparently no effort was made to utilize it in any way. To me it appears probable that in some one mind the whole "catastrophe" was brooding, that the column was part of the device, and that the event which I shall now describe was the other part.

This event was the birth of a child in the High House, a child without the distinguishing mark of the daughters of Atlas. That any child at all should have been born there is so incredible that I am inclined to suspect an improper use of the word "born." I think rather that a Magician brought Zro to its eleventh stage, when it takes human form, and lives! The alternative theory is that of the "Angel of Venus" described in the chapter on the Underground Gardens of Atlas. The supporters of this theory hold that the child was not born of a Priestess, but of the Living Atla.

In any case, the whole country gave itself up to unbridled rejoicing. Work was carried on at a greater speed than ever before: one might say a delirium of labour. For eleven years this continued without cessation, and then without warning came the order to repair to the High House --- every man, woman and child of Atlas. What was then done, I know not, and dare not guess; that same day seven volunteers, heroic exiles from the reward of so many centuries of toil, voluntary maroons on the discarded planet, the Heirs of Atlas, turned their faces from the High House, and severally sought distant mountains, there each to guard his share of the Secrets of the Holy Race, and in due time to discover and train up fit children of other races of the Earth so that one day another people might be founded to undertake another such task as that now ended.

Hardly had the pinnacle of Atlas melted into the sea behind them, than the "catastrophe" occurred. The High House and the column beneath it, with all the inhabitants of Atlas, shot from the Earth with the vehemence of a million lightnings, bound for that green blaze of glory that scintillated in the West above the sunset.

Instantly the Earth, its god departed, gave itself up to anguish. The sea rushed unto the void of the column and in a thousand earthquakes Atlas, "houses" and plains together were overwhelmed forever in the ocean. Tidal waves rolled round the world; everywhere great floods carried away villages and towns; earthquakes roocked and tempest roared; tumult was triumphant. For years after the catastrophe the dying tremors of the Event still shook mankind with fear.[29] And the eternal waves of the great mother rolled over Atlas, save where Earth in her agony thrust up gaunt pinnacles, bare masts of wreckage to mark the vanished continent. Save for its heirs, of whose successors it is my highest honour to be the youngest and the least worthy, oblivion fell, like one last night in which the Sun should be forever extinct, upon the land of Atlas and its people.
Shall such high purpose fail of emulation, such achievement and example not excite us to like striving? Then let Earth fall indeed from her high place in heaven, and mankind be outcast forever from the Sun! Men of Earth! Seek out the heirs of Atlas; let them order you into a phalanx, let them build you into a pyramid; that may pierce that appointed which awaits you, to establish a new dynasty of Atlanteans to be the mainstay and mainspring of the Earth, the pioneers of their own path to heaven, and to our lord and Father, the Sun! And he put his hand upon his thigh, and swore it.

By the ineffable " ," "Tla," and the holy Zro, did he swear it, and entered into the body of the new Atla that is alive upon the Earth.

[#29] The Legend of the Deluge is derived from this event.

Liber LII

Manifesto of the O.T.O.

Issued by Order:

BAPHOMET XI° O.T.O.,
HIBERNIAE IONAE ET OMNIUM BRITANNIARUM,
REX SUMMUS SANCTISSIMUS

Peace, Tolerance, Truth; 
Salutation on All Points of the Triangle; 
Respect To the Order.

To All Whom It May Concern: Greeting and Health.

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

1. The O.T.O. is a body of initiates in whose hands are concentrated the wisdom and the knowledge of the following bodies:
The Gnostic Catholic Church.
The Order of the Knights of the Holy Ghost.
The Order of the Illuminati.
The Order of the Temple (Knights Templar).
The Order of the Knights of St. John.
The Order of the Knights of Malta.
The Order of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre.
The Hidden Church of the Holy Graal.
The Hermetic Brotherhood of Light.
The Holy Order of Rose Croix of Heredom.
The Order of the Holy Royal Arch of Enoch.
The Antient and Primitive Rite of Masonry (33 degrees).
The Rite of Memphis (97 degrees).
The Rite of Mizraim (90 degrees).
The Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Masonry (33 degrees).
The Swedenborgian Rite of Masonry.
The Order of the Martinists.
The Order of the Sat Bhai, and many other orders of equal merit, if of less fame.
It does not include the A.·.A.·., with which august body it is, however, in close alliance.

It does not in any way infringe the just privileges of duly authorized Masonic Bodies.

2. The dispersion of the original secret wisdom having led to confusion, it was determined by the Chiefs of all these Orders to recombine and centralize their activities, even as white light, divided in a prism, may be recomposed.

It embodies the whole of the secret knowledge of all Oriental Orders; and its chiefs are initiates of the highest rank, and recognized as such by all capable of such recognition in every country in the world.

In more remote times, the constituent originating assemblies of the O.T.O. included such men as:

Fohi	Hippolytus
Laotze	Merlin
Siddartha	Arthur
Krishna	Titurel
Tahuti	Amfortas
Ankh-f-n-khonsu	Percivale
Herakles	Mosheh
Orpheus	Odysseus
Vergilius	Mohammed
Catullus	Hermes
Martialis	Pan
Apollonius Tyanaeus	Dante
Simon Magus	Carolus Magnus
Manes	William of Schyren
Basilides	Frederick of Hohenstaufen
Valentinus	Roger Bacon
Bardesanes	Jacobus Burgundus Molensis
King Wu	Ko Hsuen
Christian Rosenkreutz	Osiris
Ulrich von Hutten	Melchizedek
Paracelsus	Khem
Michael Maier	Menthu
Jakob Boehme	Johannes Dee
Francis Bacon	Sir Edward Kelly
Andrea	Thos. Vaughan
Robertus de Fluctibus	Elias Ashmole
Chau	Comte de Chazal
Saturnus	Sigismund Bacstrom
Dionysus	Molinos
 	 
And recently:

Wolfgang von Goethe	Friedrich Nietzsche
Sir Richard Payne Knight	Hargrave Jennings
Sir Richard Francis Burton	Karl Kellner
Forlong Dux	Eliphas Lévi
Ludovicus Rex Bavariae	Franz Hartmann
Richard Wagner	Cardinal Rampolla
Ludwig von Fischer	Papus (Dr. Encausse)
The names of women members are never divulged.

It is not lawful here to disclose the name of any living chief.

It was Karl Kellner who revived the exoteric organization of the O.T.O. and initiated the plan now happily complete of bringing all occult bodies again under one governance.

The letters O.T.O. represent the words Ordo Templi Orientis (Order of the Temple of the Orient, or Oriental Templars), but they have also a secret meaning for initiates.

3. The Order is international, and has existing branches in every civilized country of the world.

4. The aims of the O.T.O. can only be understood fully by its highest initiates; but it may be said openly that it teaches Hermetic Science or Occult Knowledge, the Pure and Holy Magick of Light, the Secrets of Mystic attainment, Yoga of all forms, Gnana Yoga, Raja Yoga, Bhakta Yoga and Hatha Yoga, and all other branches of the secret Wisdom of the Ancients.

In its bosom repose the Great Mysteries; its brain has resolved all the problems of philosophy and of life.

It possesses the secret of the Stone of the Wise, of the Elixir of Immortality, and of the Universal Medicine.

Moreover, it possesses a Secret capable of realizing the world-old dream of the Brotherhood of Man.

It also possesses in every important centre of poÿulation a hidden Retreat (Collegium ad Spiritum Sanctum) where members may conceal themselves in order to pursue the Great Work without hindrance.

These houses are secret fortresses of Truth, Light, Power and Love, and their position is only disclosed under an oath of secrecy to those entitled to make use of them.

They are also temples of true worship, specially consecrated by Nature to bring out of a man all that is best in him.

5. The authority of the O.T.O. is concentrated in the O.H.O. (Outer Head of the Order), or Frater Superior. The name of the person occupying this office is never disclosed except to his immediate representatives.

6. The Authority of the O.H.O. in all English-speaking countries is delegated by charter to the Most Holy, Most Illustrious, Most Illuminated, and Most Puissant Baphomet X° Rex Summus Sanctissimus 33°, 90°, 96°, Past Grand Master of the United States of America, Grand Master of Ireland, Iona, and All the Britains, Grand Master of the Knights of the Holy Ghost, Sovereign Grand Commander of the Order of the Temple, Most Wise Sovereign of the Order of the Rosy Cross, Grand Zerubbabel of the Order of the Holy Royal Arch of Enoch, etc. etc. etc., National Grand Master General ad vitam of the O.T.O.

7. The National Grand Master General ad vitam is assisted by two principal officers, the Grand Treasurer General and the Grand Secretary General.

There are many other officers, but they do not concern those to whom the present manifesto is addressed.

8. The whole of the Knowledge dispersed among the bodies mentioned in paragraph 2 has been sifted and concentrated in the following degrees.

Oÿ	Minerval
I°	M.
II°	M. .
III°	M.·.
 	P.·.M.·.
IV°	Companion of the Holy Royal Arch of Enoch.
Prince of Jerusalem.
Knight of the East and of the West.
V°	Sovereign Prince of Rose Croix. (Knight of the Pelican and Eagle.)
Member of the Senate of Knight Hermetic Philosophers,
Knights of the Red Eagle.
VI°	Illustrious Knight (Templar) of the Order of Kadosch, and Companion of
the Holy Graal.
Grand Inquisitor Commander, Member of the Grand Tribunal.
Prince of the Royal Secret.
VII°	Very Illustrious Sovereign Grand Inspector General.
Member of the Supreme Grand Council.
VIII°	Perfect Pontiff of the Illuminati.
IX°	Initiate of the Sanctuary of the Gnosis.
X°	Rex Summus Sanctissimus (Supreme and Most Holy King).
9. Every man and woman that is of full age, free, and of good report, has an indefeasible right to the III°.

Beyond this, admission is only granted by invitation from the governing body concerned.

The O.T.O., although an Academia Masonica, is not a Masonic Body so far as the 'secrets' are concerned in the sense in which that expression is usually understood; and therefore in no way conflicts with, or infringes the just privileges of, the United Grand Lodge of England, or any Grand Lodge in America or elsewhere which is recognized by it.

10. Application for admission to the Order may be made personally at headquarters, between the hours of Ten A.M. and Twelve Noon on week-days, or by letter to the Grand Secretary General. In the former case, applicants should be provided with the Twenty Dollars entitling them to the Third Degree; in the latter, it should be enclosed with the application.

The First Annual Subscription is payable on taking the Third Degree; if this is taken after June 30 in any year, only half the amount is due.

Subscriptions of old members are due on January 1, but the Brother is considered in good standing, and he does not lose his rights, if it is paid by March 1. Should he fail to discharge his obligation by this date, he ceases ipso facto to be a member of the Order, but may be reinstated on paying arrears and Five Dollars extra. If his lapse extend to the next year following, he can only be reinstated under special conditions, and by the express consent in writing of the National Grand Master General ad vitam.

11. The Constitution, Trust Deeds, Charters, Warrants and all other documents, are exhibited to candidates on their exaltation to the IV°, should they desire it.

12. Besides the free certificate of membership, special diplomas for framing are granted to all members at a uniform price of Ten Dollars. Special diplomas of the IX°, Twenty-five Dollars.

13. The privileges of members of the O.T.O. are very numerous. These are the principal:

They have not only access to, but instruction in, the whole body of hidden knowledge preserved in the Sanctuary from the beginning of its manifestation.
In the lower grades the final secrets are hinted and conveyed in symbol, beneath veil, and through sacrament.

In this way the intelligence of the initiate is called into play, so that he who well uses the knowledge of the lower grades may be selected for invitation to the higher, where all things are declared openly.

They become partakers of the current of Universal Life in Liberty, Beauty, Harmony, and Love which flames within the heart of the O.T.O., and the Light of that august fraternity insensibly illuminates them ever more and more as they approach its central Sun.
They meet those persons most complemental to their own natures, and find unexpected help and brotherhood in the whole world wherever they may travel.
They obtain the right to sojourn in the secret houses of the O.T.O., permanently or for a greater or lesser period of the year according to their rank in the Order; or, in the case of those of the Fifth and lower degrees, are candidates for invitation to these houses.
The Knowledge of the Preparation and Use of the Universal Medicine is restricted to members of the IX°; but it may be administered to members of the VIII° and VII° in special circumstances by favour of the National Grand Masters General, and even in particular emergency to members of lower degrees.
In the V° all members are pledged to bring immediate and perfect relief to all distress of mind, body, or estate, in which they may find any of their fellows of that degree. In the higher degrees the Bonds of Fraternity are still further strengthened. The Order thus affords a perfect system of insurance against every misfortune or accident of life.
Members of the IX° become part proprietors of the Estates and Goods of the Order, so that the attainment of this degree implies a return with interest of the fees and subscriptions paid.
The Order gives practical assistance in life to worthy members of even its lower degrees, so that, even if originally poor, they become well able to afford the comparatively high fees of the VII°, VIII°, and IX°. On exaltation to the IV° each Companion may file an account of his circumstances, and state in what direction he requires help.
14. In selecting members for advancement, attention is paid to their devotion to the Order, to their intelligence in apprehending the nature of its teaching, to their zeal in spreading the principles of the Order so far as they themselves understand them, though always with the discretion inseparable from the due guarding of the secrets, and to all those qualities of courage, honour, and virtue without which man is not worthy of that name.

15. The O.H.O. is only known to members of the VIII° and IX°.

The National Grand Master General ad vitam is not approachable as such by any person who has not reached the VI°.

All communications should be addressed to the Grand Secretary General, and all cheques drawn in favour of the Grand Treasurer General.

Issued by Order,

L. Bathurst IX°, Grand Secretary General

LIBER LV The Chymical Jousting of
BROTHER PERARDUA

With the Seven Lances
That He Brake

(A.A. publication in class C)

He slayeth Sir Argon le Paresseux
Now Brother Perardua, though he was but a Zelator of our ancient Order, had determined in himself to perform the Magnum Opus, and to procure for himself one Tincture of Double Efficacy. Not fully did he yet comprehend the Mysterium of our Art, therefore imposed he upon himself the painful sevenfold regimen. For without the Bell of Electrum Magicum of Paracelsus how should, the adept even give warning to the Powers of the Work of his entry thereunto.

Yet our brother, being of stout heart- for he had been a soldier in many distant lands- began right cheerfully. His head that was hoary with eld he crowned with five petals of white lotus, as if to signify the purity of his body, and went forth into that place where is no field, nor any furrow therein; and there he sowed a scroll that had two and twenty seeds diverse.

He slayeth Sir Abjad the Saracen

Nor for all his care and labour could he gather therefrom more than seven planets, that shone in the blackness; and each plant beareth a single blossom that hath seven petals© one would have thought them stars; for though they were not of a verity in themselves brilliant and flashing, yet so black was that wherein they grew that they seemed brighter than suns. And these were placed one above the other in a single line and straight, even according unto seven centers of his intention that he bare about him in the hollow tube that hath thirty and two joints.

He slayeth Sir Amorex le Desirous

These plants did our brother Perardua pluck, as the mystic rites ordain; and these did he heat furiously in his alembic, yet with vegetable heat alone, while he kept them ever moist, dropping upon them of his lunar water, whereof he had three and seventy minims left of the eight and seventy that his Father had given him; and these he had borne upon a camel through the desert unto this place where he now was, which is called the Oasis of the Lion, even as the whole Regimen that in the end he accomplished is in the form of a Lion.

This then his Lion waxed exceeding thirsty, and licked up all the dew. But the fire being equal thereunto, he was not discomforted.

He slayeth Sir Lionel the Warder of the Marches

So now indeed he wrought the first Matter to a pitch of excellence beyond the human; for without trouble was his tincture thus beautiful. First, it had the crown and horns of Alexander the mighty king; also it had wings of fine sapphire; its fore part was like the Lion, whereby indeed it partook of the highest Virtue, and its hinder quarters were as a bull's. Moreover it stood upon the White Sphere and the Red Cube; and it is not possible for any Elixir to exceed this, unless it be by Our path and working.

He slayeth Sir Merlin the Wizard

Yet our brother Perardua- and by now he was right skillful at the athanor!- determined to attain to that higher Projection of our art. Therefore he subtly prepared a Red Dragon, or as some alchemists will have it, a Fiery Flying Serpent, whereby he should eat up that Sphinx of his, that he had nourished with such ingenium and care.

Now this Red Dragon hath seven fiery coils, proper to the seven silver stars. Also was his head right venomous and greedy, and eight flames were about it; for that Sphinx had two wings and four feet and two horns; but the Serpent is one, even as the King is one.

He slayeth the Great Dragon called Stooping or Twisted

Now then is this work utterly burnt up and abolished in that tremendous heat that is in the mouth and belly of the Dragon; and that which cometh forth therefrom is in no wise that which went in. Yet are these twelve the children of those two-and-twenty. So when he had broken the cucurbite, he found therein no trace of the seven, but a button of fused gold- as we say, for it is not gold...

Now this button hath twelve faces, and angles twenty-four salient and reentrant; and Our Egyptian brethren have called it the Pavement of the Firmament of Nu.

He slayeth King Astur of the Arms Argent

Now this metal is not in any wise like unto earthly metals; let the brethren well beware, for many false knaves be abroad. Three things be golden: the mineral gold of the merchant, that is dross; the vegetable gold that groweth from the seed of the scroll by virtue of the Lion; and the animal gold that cometh forth from the regimen of the Dragon, and this last is the sole marketable gold of the Philosopher. For, behold, an Arcanum! I charge you, keep secret this matter; for the vile brothers, could they divine it, would pervert it.

This mineral Gold cannot be changed into any other substance by any means.

This Vegetable Gold is fluidic; it must increase wonderfully and be fixed in the Perfection of the Sphinx.

But this our Animal Gold is to this mighty pitch unstable, that it can neither increase nor decrease, nor can it remain that which it is, or seemeth to be. For even as a drop of glass unequally cooled flieth at a touch into a myriad fine particles, so also at a touch this gold philosophical dissolveth his being, ofttimes with a great and terrible explosion, ofttimes so softly and subtly that no man may perceive it, be he never so acute, nay, as a needle for sharpness or for fineness as a spyglass of the necromancers.

Yet herein lieth the core of the matter that in this explosion aforesaid naught whatever is left either of the seven or the twelve or of the three Mother seeds that lie concealed therein. But in a certain mystical way the Other Ten are shadowed forth, though dimly, as if the Brazen Serpent had become a Sword of Lightning. Yet this is but a glyph; for in truth there is no link or bond between them.

For this Animal Gold is passed utterly away; there is not any button thereof, nor any feature of the Wings of the Sphinx, nor any mark of the Sower or of the Seed. But at that Lightning Flash all did entirely disappear, and the Cucurbite and the Alembic and the Athanor were shattered utterly... and there arose That which he had set himself to seek; yea, more! a grain of the Powder, and three minims of the Elixir, and Six drachms of the Tincture of Double Efficacy.

... Yet the brethren mocked him; for he had imperilled himself sore; so that unto this hour hath the name of Perardua been forgotten, and they that have need to speak of him say in right joyaunce Non Sine Fulmine.

THE TEMPLE OF SOLOMON 
THE KING 

To plead the organic causation of a religious state of mind, then, in refutation of its claim to possess superior spiritual value, is quite illogical and arbitrary, unless one have already worked out in advance some psycho-physical theory connecting spiritual values in general with determinate sorts of physiological change. Otherwise none of our thoughts and feelings, not even our scientific doctrines, not even our "dis"-beliefs, could retain any value as revelations of the truth, for every one of them without exception flows from the state of their possessor's body at the time.  
It is needles to say that medical materialism draws in point of fact no such sweeping skeptical conclusion. It is sure, just as every simple man is sure, that some states of mind are inwardly superior to others, and reveal to us more truth, and in this it simply makes use of an ordinary spiritual judgment. It has no physiological theory of the production of these its favourite states, by which it may accredit them; and its attempt to discredit the states which it dislikes, by vaguely associating them with nerves and liver, and connecting them with names connoting bodily affliction, is altogether illogical and inconsistent.  

PROF. WILLIAM JAMES. 
And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God and the altar, and them that worship therein. --- Rev. xi. 1. 
PREFACE 

THE QUESTION 
AVE! 

There must have been a time in the life of every student of the Mysteries when he has paused whilst reading the work or the life of some well-known Mystic, a moment of perplexity in which, bewildered, he has turned to himself and asked the question: "Is this one telling me the truth?" 

Still more so does this strike us when we turn to any commentative work upon Mysticism, such as Récéjac's "Bases of the Mystic Knowledge," or William James's "Varieties of Religious Experience." In fact, so much so, that unless we are more than commonly sceptical of the wordy theories which attempt to explain these wordy utterances we are bound to clasp hands with the great school of medical-materialism, which is all but paramount at the present hour, and dismiss all such as have had a glimpse of something we do not see as detraques, degenerates, neuropaths, psychopaths, hypochondriacs, and epileptics. 

Well, even if we do, these terms explain very little, and in most cases, especially when applied to mystic states, nothing at all; nevertheless they form an excellent loophole out of which the ignorant may crawl when faced with a difficulty they have not the energy or wit to surmount. {143} 

True, the utter chaos amongst all systems of magic and mysticism that has prevailed in the West during the last two thousand years, partially, if not entirely, accounts for the uncritical manner in which these systems have been handled by otherwise critical minds. 

Even to-day, though many thousand years after they were first written down, we find a greater simplicity and truth in the ancient rituals and hymns of Egypt and Assyria than in the extraordinary entanglement of systems that came to life during the first five hundred years of Christian era. And in the East, from the most remote antiquity to the present day, scientific systems of illuminism have been in daily practice from the highest to the lowest in the land; though, as we consider, much corrupted by an ignorant priestcraft, by absurd superstitions and by a science which fell to a divine revelation in place of rising to a sublime art. 

In the West, for some fifteen hundred years now, Christianity has swayed the minds of men from the Arctic seas to the Mediterranean. At first but one of many small excrescent faiths, which sprang up like fungi amongst the superb débris of the religions of Egypt, Babylonia, and Greece, it was not long before (on account of its warlike tenets and the deeply magical nature of its rites*) 

* Primitive Christianity had a greater adaptability than any other contemporary religion of assimilating to itself all that was more particularly pagan in polytheism; the result being that it won over the great masses of the people, who then were, as they are now, inherently conservative. 
it forced its head and then its arms above the shoulders of its weaker brothers; and when once in a position to strike, so thoroughly bullied all competitors that the few who inwardly stood outside the Church, {144} to save the bruised skins of the faiths they still held dear, were, for self- preservation, bound to clothe them in the tinsel of verbosity, in wild values and extravagant symbols and cyphers; the result being that chaos was heaped upon chaos, till at last all sense became cloaked in a truculent obscurantism. Still, by him who has eyes will it be seen that through all this darkness there shone the glamour of a great and beautiful Truth. 
Little is it to be wondered then, in these present shallow intellectual days, that almost any one who has studied, or even heard of, the theories of any notorious nobody of the moment at once relegates to the museum or the waste-paper basket these theories and systems, which were once the very blood of the world, and which in truth are so still, though few suspect it. 

Truth is Truth; and the Truth of yesterday is the Truth of to-day, and the Truth of to-day is the Truth of to- morrow. Our quest, then, is to find Truth, and to cut the kernel from the husk, the text from the comment. 

To start from the beginning would appear the proper course to adopt; but if we commence sifting the shingle from the sand with the year 10,000 B.C. there is little likelihood of our ever arriving within measurable distance of the present day. Fortunately, however, for us, we need not start with any period anterior to our own, or upon any subject outside of our own true selves. But two things we must learn, if we are ever to make ourselves intelligible to others, and these are, firstly an alphabet, and secondly a language whereby to express our thoughts; for without some definite system of expression our only course is to remain silent, lest further confusion be added to the already bewildering chaos. {145} 

It will be at once said by any one who has read as far as this: "I lay you whatever odds you name that the writer of this book will prove to be the first offender!" And with all humility will we at once plead guilty to this offence. Unfortunately it is so, and must at first be so; yet if in the end we succeed in creating but the first letter of the new Alphabet we shall not consider that we have failed; far from it, for we shall rejoice that, the entangled threshold having been crossed, the goal, though distant, is at last in sight. 

In a hospital a chart is usually kept for each patient, upon which may be seen the exact progress, from its very commencement, of the case in question. By it the doctor can daily judge the growth or decline of the disease he is fighting. On Thursday, let us say, the patient's temperature in 100°; in the evening he is given a cup of beef-tea (the patient up to the present having been kept strictly on milk diet); on the following morning the doctor finds that his temperature has risen to 102°, and at once concludes that the fever has not yet sufficiently abated for a definite change of diet to be adopted, and, "knocking off" the beef-tea, down drops the temperature. 

Thus, if he be a worthy physician, he will study his patient, never overlooking the seemingly most unimportant details which can help him to realise his object, namely, recovery and health. 

Not only does this system of minute tabulation apply to cases of disease and sickness, but to every branch of healthy life as well, under the name of "business"; the best business man being he who reduces his special occupation in life from "muddle" to "science." 

In the West religion alone has never issued from chaos; {146} and the hour, late though it be, has struck when without fear or trembling adepts have arisen to do for Faith what Copernicus, Kepler, and Newton did for what is vulgarly known as "Science." And as Faith, growing old before its day, held back Science with a cruel hand, so let us now, whilst Science is still young, step briskly forward and claim our rights, lest if we halt we too shall find the child of the Morning once again strangled in the maw of a second Night. 

Now, even to such as are still mere students in the mysteries, it must have become apparent that there are moments in the lives of others, if not in their own, which bring with them an enormous sense of inner authority and illumination; moments which created epochs in our lives, and which, when they have gone, stand out as luminous peaks in the moonlight of the past. Sad to say, they come but seldom, so seldom that often they are looked back upon as miraculous visitations of some vastly higher power beyond and outside of ourselves. But when they do come the greatest joys of earth wither before them like dried leaves in the fire, and fade from the firmament of our minds as the stars of night before the rising sun. 

Now, if it were possible to induce these states of ecstasy or hallucination, or whatever we care to call them, at will, so to speak, we should have accomplished what was once called, and what is still known as, the Great Work, and have discovered the Stone of the Wise, that universal dissolvent. Sorrow would cease and give way to joy, and joy to a bliss quite unimaginable to all who have not as yet experienced it. 

St. John of the Cross, writing of the "intuitions" by which God reaches the soul, says: {147} 

"They enrich us marvellously. A single one of them may be sufficient to abolish at a stroke certain imperfections of which the soul during its whole life has vainly tried to rid itself, and to leave it adorned with virtues and loaded with supernatural gifts. A single one of the intoxicating consolations may reward it for all the labours undergone in its life --- even were they numberless. Invested with an invincible courage, filled with an impassioned desire to suffer for its God, the soul then is seized with a strange torment --- that of not being allowed to suffer enough."* 

* "OEuvres," ii. 320. Prof. William James writes: "The great Spanish mystics, who carried the habit of ecstasy as far as it has often been carried, appear for the most part to have shown indomitable spirit and energy, and all the more so for the trances in which they indulged."  
Writing of St. Ignatius, he says: "St. Ignatius was a mystic, but his mysticism made him assuredly one of the most powerful practical human engines that ever lived" ("The Varieties of Religious Experience," p. 413). 

In the old days, when but a small portion of the globe was known to civilised man, the explorer and the traveller would return to his home with weird, fantastic stories of long-armed hairy men, of impossible monsters, and countries of fairy-like wonder. But he who travels now and who happens to see a gorilla, or a giraffe, or perchance a volcano, forgets to mention it even in his most casual correspondence! And why? Because he has learnt to understand that such things are. He has named them, and, having done so, to him they cease as objects of interest. In one respect he gives birth to a great truth, which he at once cancels by giving birth to a great falsehood; for his reverence, like his disdain, depends but on the value of a name. 
Not so, however, the adept; for as a zoologist does not lose {148} his interest in the simian race because he has learnt to call a long-armed hairy man a gorilla; so he, by learning to explain himself with clearness, and to convey the image of his thoughts with accuracy to the brain of another, is winnowing the wheat from the chaff, the Truth from the Symbol of Truth. 

Now when St. John of the Cross tells us that a single vision of God may reward us for all the labours of this life, we are at perfect liberty, in these tolerant days, to cry "Yea!" or "Nay!" We may go further: we may extol St. John to the position of a second George Washington, or we may call him "a damned liar!" or, again, if we do not wish to be considered rude, a "neuropath," or some other equally amiable synonym. But none of these expressions explains to us very much; they are all equally vague --- nay (curious to relate!), even mystical --- and as such appertain to the Kingdom of Zoroaster, that realm of pure faith: i.e., faith in St. John, or faith in something opposite to St. John. 

But now let us borrow from Pyrrho --- the Sceptic, the keen-sighted man of science --- that word "WHY," and apply it to our "Yea" and our "Nay," just as a doctor questions himself and the patient about the disease; and we shall very soon find that we are being drawn to a logical conclusion, or at least to a point from which such a conclusion becomes possible.* 

* "In the natural sciences and industrial arts it never occurs to any one to try to refute opinions by showing up their author's neurotic constitution. Opinions here are invariably tested by logic and by experiment, no matter what may be their author's neurological type. It should be no otherwise with religious opinions." --- "The Varieties of Religious Experience," pp. 17, 18. 
And from this spot the toil of the husbandman must not be condemned until the Season arrives in which the tree he has {149} planted bears fruit; then by its fruit shall it be known, and by its fruit shall it be judged.*  
 
* "Dr. Maudsley is perhaps the cleverest of the rebutters of supernatural religion on grounds of origin. Yet he finds himself forced to write ('Natural Causes and Supernatural Seemings,' 1886, pp. 256, 257):  
"'What right have we to believe Nature under any obligation to do her work by means of complete minds only? She may find an incomplete mind a more suitable instrument for a particular purpose. It is the work that is done, and the quality in the worker by which it was done, that is alone of moment; and it may be no great matter from a cosmical standpoint if in other qualities of character he as singularly defective --- if indeed he were hypocrite, adulterer, eccentric, or lunatic. ... Home we come again, then, to the old and last resort of certitude, --- namely the common assent of mankind, or of the competent by instruction and training among mankind.'  

"In other words, not its origin, but the way in which it works on the whole, is Dr. Maudsley's final test of a belief. This is our own empiricist criterion; and this criterion the stoutest insisters on supernatural origin have also been forced to use in the end." --- "The Varieties of Religious Experience," pp. 19, 20.  

To put it vulgarly, "the proof of the pudding is in the eating," and it is sheer waste of time to upbraid the cook before tasting of his dish. 

This application of the word "Why" is the long and short of what has been called Scientific Illuminism,* 
* Or Pyrrho-Zoroastrianism.
or the science of learning how not to say "Yes" until you know that it is YES, and how not to say "No" until you know that it is NO. It is the all-important word of our lives, the corner- stone of the Temple, the keystone of the arch, the flail that beats the grain from the chaff, the sieve through which Falsehood passes and in which Truth remains. It is, indeed, the poise of the balance, the gnomon of the sun-dial; which, if we learn to read aright, will tell us at what hour of our lives we have arrived. 
Through the want of it kingdoms have fallen into decay and by it empires have been created; and its dreaded foe is of necessity "dogma." {150} 

Directly a man begins to say "Yes" without the question "Why?" he becomes a dogmatist, a potential, if not an actual liar. And it is for this reason that we are so bitterly opposed to and use such scathing words against the present- day rationalist* 

* "We have to confess that the part of it [mental life] of which rationalism can give an account is relatively superficial. It is the part that has the "prestige" undoubtedly, for it has the loquacity, it can challenge you for proofs, and chop logic, and put you down with words. But it will fail to convince or convert you all the same, if your dumb intuitions are opposed to its conclusions. If you have intuitions at all, they come from a deeper level of your nature than the loquacious level which rationalism inhabits." --- "The Varieties of Religious Experience," p. 73.
when we attack him. For we see he is doing for Darwin, Huxley, and Spencer what the early Christian did for Jesus, Peter, and Paul; and that is, that he, having already idealised them, is now in the act of apotheosising them. Soon, if left unattacked, will their word become THE WORD, and in the place of the "Book of Genesis" shall we have the "Origin of Species," and in the place of the Christian accepting as Truth the word of Jesus shall we have the Rationalist accepting as Truth the word of Darwin. 
But what of the true man of science? say you; those doubting men who silently work in their laboratories, accepting no theory, however wonderful it may be, until theory has given birth to fact. We agree --- but what of the Magi? answer we; the few fragments of whose wisdom which escaped the Christian flames will stand in the eyes of all men as a wonder. It was the Christians who slew the magic of Christ, and so will it be, if they are allowed to live, 

the Rationalists who will slay the magic of Darwin; so that four hundred years hence perchance will some disciple of Lamarck {151} be torn to pieces in the rooms of the Royal Society by the followers of Haeckel, just as Hypatia, that disciple of Plato, was torn to pieces in the Church of Christ by followers of St. John. 

We have nothing to say against the men of science, we have nothing to say against the great Mystics --- all hail to both! But such of their followers who accepted the doctrines of either the one or the other as a dogma we here openly pronounce to be a bane, a curse, and a pestilence to mankind. 

Why assume that only one system of ideas can be true? And when you have answered this question there will be time enough to assume that all other systems are wrong. Start with a clean sheet, and write neatly and beautifully upon it, so that others can read you aright; do not start with some old palimpsest, and then scribble all over it carelessly, for then indeed others will come who will of a certainty ready you awry. 

If Osiris, Christ, and Mahomet were mad, then indeed is madness the key to the door of the Temple. Yet if they were only called mad for being wise beyond the sane, then ask you why their doctrines brought with them the crimes of bigotry and the horrors of madness? And our answer is, that though they loved Truth and wedded Truth, they could not explain Truth; and their disciples therefore had to accept the symbols of Truth for Truth, without the possibility of asking "Why?" or else reject Truth altogether. Thus it came about that the greater the Master the less was he able to explain himself, and the more obscure his explanations the darker became the minds of his followers. It was the old story of the light that blinded the darkness. You can teach a bushman to add one to one, and he may after some teaching grasp the idea of "two"; but do not try to tech him the {152} differential calculus! The former may be compared to the study of the physical sciences, the latter to that of the mental; therefore all the more should we persevere to work out correctly the seemingly most absurd, infinitesimal differences, and perchance one day, when we have learnt how to add unit to unit, a million and a millionth part of a unit will be ours. 

We will now conclude this part of our preface with two long quotations from Prof. James's excellent book; the first of which, slightly abridged, is as follows: 

"It is the terror and beauty of phenomena, the 'promise' of the dawn and of the rainbow, the 'voice' of the thunder, the 'gentleness' of the summer rain, the 'sublimity' of the stars, and not the physical laws which these things follow, by which the religious mind still continues to be most impressed; and just as of yore the devout man tells you that in the solitude of his room or of the fields he still feels the divine presence, and that sacrifices to this unseen reality fill him with security and peace. 

"Pure anachronism! says the survival-theory; --- anachronism for which deanthropomorphization of the imagination is the remedy required. The less we mix the private with the cosmic, the more we dwell in universal in impersonal terms, the truer heirs of Science we become. 

"In spite of the appeal which this impersonality of the scientific attitude makes to a certain magnanimity of temper, I believe it to be shallow, and I can now state my reason in comparatively few words. That reason is that, so long as we deal with the cosmic and the general, we deal only with the symbols of reality, but as soon as we deal with the private and personal phenomena as such, we deal with realities in the {153} completest sense of the term. I think I can easily make clear what I mean by these words. 

"The world of our experience consists at all times of two parts, an objective and a subjective part, of which the former may be incalculably more extensive than the latter, and yet the latter can never be omitted or suppressed. The objective part is the sum total of whatsoever at any given time we may be thinking of, the subjective part is the inner 'state' in which the thinking comes to pass. What we think of may be enormous -- the cosmic times and spaces, for example --- whereas the inner state may be the most fugitive and paltry activity of mind. Yet the cosmic objects, so far as the experience yields them, are but ideal pictures of something whose existence we do not inwardly possess, but only point at outwardly, while the inner state is our very experience itself; its reality and that of our experience are one. A conscious field plus its object as felt or thought of plus an attitude towards the object plus the sense of a self to whom the attitude belongs --- such a concrete bit of personal experience may be a small bit, but it is a solid bit as long as it lasts; not hollow, not a mere abstract element of experience, such as the 'object' is when taken all alone. It is a full fact, even though it be an insignificant fact; it is of the kind to which all realities whatsoever must belong; the motor currents of the world run through the like of it; it is on the line connecting real events with real events. That unshareable feeling which each one of us has of the pinch of his individual destiny as he privately feels it rolling out on fortune's wheel may be disparaged for its egotism, may be sneered at as unscientific, but it is the one thing that fills up the measure of our concrete actuality, {154} and any would-be existence that should lack such a feeling, or its analogue, would be a piece of reality only half made up. 

"If this be true, it is absurd for science to say that the egotistic elements of experience should be suppressed. The axis of reality runs solely through the egotistic places --- they are strung upon it like so many beads. To describe the world with all the various feelings of the individual pinch of destiny, all the various spiritual attitudes, left out from the description --- they being as describable as anything else --- would be something like offering a printed bill of fare as the equivalent for a solid meal. Religion makes no such blunders. ... A bill of fare with one real raisin on it instead of the word 'raisin' and one real egg instead of the word 'egg' might be an inadequate meal, but it would at least be a commencement of reality. The contention of the survival-theory that we ought to stick to non-personal elements exclusively seems like saying that we ought to be satisfied forever with reading the naked bill of fare. . . . It does not follow, because our ancestors made so many errors of fact and mixed them with their religion, that we should therefore leave off being religious at all. By being religious we establish ourselves in possession of ultimate reality at the only points at which reality is given us to guard. Our responsible concern is with our private destiny after all." * 

* "The Varieties of Religious Experience," pp. 498-501. 
"We must next pass beyond the point of view of merely subjective utility, and make inquiry into the intellectual content itself. 
"First, is there, under all the discrepancies of the creeds, {155} a common nucleus to which they bear their testimony unanimously? 

"And second, ought we to consider the testimony true? 

"I will take up the first question first, and answer it immediately in the affirmative. The warring gods and formulas of the various religions do indeed cancel each other, but there is a certain uniform deliverance in which religions all appear to meet. It consists of two parts: 

"(1) An uneasiness; and 

"(2) Its solution. 

"1. The uneasiness, reduced to its simplest terms, is a sense that there is something wrong about us as we naturally stand. 

"2. The solution is a sense that we are saved from the wrongness by making proper connection with the higher powers. 

"In those more developed minds which alone we are studying, the wrongness takes a moral character, and the salvation takes a mystical tinge. I think we shall keep well within the limits of what is common to all such minds if we formulate the essence of their religious experience in terms like these: 

"The individual, so far as he suffers from his wrongness and criticises it, is to that extent consciously beyond it, and in at least possible touch with something higher, if anything higher exist. Along with the wrong part there is thus a better part of him, even though it may be but a most helpless germ. With which part he should identify his real being is by no means obvious at this stage; but when Stage 2 (the stage of solution or salvation) arrives, the man identifies his real being with the germinal higher part of himself; and does {156} so in the following way: He becomes conscious that this higher part is conterminous and continuous with a MORE of the same quality, which is operative in the universe outside of him, and which he can keep in working touch with, and in a fashion get on board of and save himself when all his lower being has gone to pieces in the wreck" * 

* "The Varieties of Religious Experience", pp. 507, 508
. 
These last few lines bring us face to face with the subject of this volume, viz.: --- 

FRATER P. 

To enter upon a somewhat irrelevant matter, this is what actually happened to the complier of this book: 
For ten years he had been a sceptic, in that sense of the word which is generally conveyed by the terms infidel, atheist, and freethinker; then suddenly, in a single moment, he withdrew all the scepticism with which he had assailed religion, and hurled it against freethought itself; and as the former had crumbled into dust, so now the latter vanished in smoke. 

In this crisis there was no sickness of soul, no division of self; for he simply had turned a corner on the road along which he was travelling and suddenly became aware of the fact that the mighty range of snow-capped mountains upon which he had up to now fondly imagined he was gazing was after all but a great bank of clouds. So he passed on smiling to himself at his own childlike illusion. 

Shortly after this he became acquainted with a certain brother of the Order of A.·. A.·.; and himself a little later became an initiate in the first grade of that Order. 

In this Order, at the time of his joining it, was a certain {157} brother of the name of P., who had but just returned from China, and who had been six years before sent out by the Order to journey through all the countries of the world and collect all knowledge possible in the time which touched upon the mystical experiences of mankind. This P. had to the best of his ability done, and though he had only sojourned in Europe, in Egypt, India, Ceylon, China, Burma, Arabia, Siam, Tibet, Japan, Mexico, and the United States of America, so deep had been his study and so exalted had been his understanding that it was considered by the Order that he had collected sufficient material and testimony whereon to compile a book for the instruction of mankind. And as Frater N.S.F. was a writer of some little skill, the diaries and notes of Frater P. were given to him and another, and they were enjoined to set them together in such a manner that they would be an aid to the seeker in the mysteries, and would be as a tavern on a road beset with many dangers and difficulties, wherein the traveller can find good cheer and wine that strengtheneth and refresheth the soul. 

It is therefore earnestly hoped that this book will become as a refuge to all, where a guide may be hired or instructions freely sought; but the seeker is requested --- nay, commanded --- with all due solemnity by the Order of the A.·. A.·. to accept nothing as Truth until he has proved it so to be, to his own satisfaction and to his own honour. 

And it is further hoped that he may, upon closing this book, be somewhat enlightened, and, even if as through a glass darkly, see the great shadow of Truth beyond, and one day enter the Temple. 

So much for the subject; now for the object of this volume: {158} 

THE AUGOEIDES. *

* From a letter of Fra P. 
"Lytton calls him Adonai in 'Zanoni,' and I often use this name in the note-books. 
"Abramelin calls him Holy Guardian Angel. I adopt this: 

"1. Because Abramelin's system is so simple and effective. 

"2. Because since all theories of the universe are absurd it is better to talk in the language of one which is patently absurd, so as to mortify the metaphysical man. 

"3. Because a child can understand it. 

"Theosophists call him the Higher Self, Silent Watcher, or Great Master. 

"The Golden Dawn calls him the Genius. 

"Gnostics say the Logos. 

"Zoroaster talks about uniting all these symbols into the form of a Lion --- see Chaldean Oracles. * 

*"A similar Fire flashingly extending through the rushings of Air, or a Fire formless whence cometh the Image of a Voice, or even a flashing Light abounding, revolving, whirling forth, crying aloud. Also there is the vision of the fire-flashing Courser of Light, or also a Child, borne aloft on the shoulders of the Celestial Steed, fiery, or clothed with gold, or naked, or shooting with the bow shafts of Light, and standing on the shoulders of the horse; then if thy meditation prolongeth itself, thou shalt unite all these symbols into the Form of a Lion."
"Anna Kingsford calls him Adonai (Clothed with the Sun). Buddhists call him Adi-Buddha --- (says H. P. B.) 
"The Bhagavad-Gita calls him Vishnu (chapter xi.). 

"The Yi King calls him "The Great Person." 

"The Qabalah calls him Jechidah. * 

* WEH note: In the sense used here, it might be more accurate to say "Neshamiah". 
"We also get metaphysical analysis of His nature, deeper and deeper according to the subtlety of the writer; for this {159} vision --- it is all one same phenomenon, variously coloured by our varying Ruachs * 
* Ruach: the third form, the Mind, the Reasoning Power, that which possesses the Knowledge of Good and Evil.
--- is, I believe, the first and the last of all Spiritual Experience. For though He is attributed to Malkuth, * 
* Malkuth: the tenth Sephira. 
and the Door of the Path of His overshadowing, He is also in Kether (Kether is in Malkuth and Malkuth in Kether --- "as above, so beneath"), and the End of the "Path of the Wise" is identity with Him. 
"So that while he is the Holy Guardian Angel, He is also Hua * 

*The supreme and secret title of Kether. 
and the Tao. * 
* The great extreme of the Yi King. 
"For since Intra Nobis Regnum deI * 
* I.N.R.I. 
all things are in Ourself, and all Spiritual Experience is a more of less complete Revelation of Him. 
"Yet it is only in the Middle Pillar * 

* Or "Mildness," the Pillar on the right being that of "Mercy," and that on the left "Justice." These refer to the Qabalistic Tree of Life. 
that His manifestation is in any way perfect. 
"The Augoedes invocation is the whole thing. Only it is so difficult; one goes along through all the fifty gates of Binah * 

* Binah: the third Sephira, the Understanding. She is the Supernal Mother, as distinguished from Malkuth, the Inferior Mother. (Nun) is attributed to the Understanding; its value is 50. Vide "The Book of Concealed Mystery," sect. 40. 
at once, more or less illuminated, more or less deluded. But the First and the Last is this Augoeides Invocation." 
THE BOOK 

This Book is divided into four parts: {160}  
 
I. The Foundations of the Temple. 
II. The Scaffolding of the Temple. 

III. The Portal of the Temple. 

IV. The Temple of Solomon the King. 

Three methods of expression are used to enlighten and instruct the reader:  
 
(a) Pictorial symbols. 
(b) Metaphorically expressed word-pictures. 

(c) Scientifically expressed facts. 

The first method is found appended to each of the four Books, balancing, so to speak, Illuminism and Science. 
The second method is found almost entirely in the first Book and the various pictures are entitled: * 

* Nine pictures between Darkness and Light, or eleven in all. The union of the Pentagram and the Hexagram is to be noted; also the eleven-lettered name ABRAHADABRA; 418; Achad Osher, or One and Ten; the Eleven Averse Sephiroth; and Adonai. 
The Black Watch-tower, or the Dreamer. 
The Miser, or the Theist. 

The Spendthrift, or the Pantheist. 

The Bankrupt, or the Atheist. 

The Prude, or the Rationalist. 

The Child, or the Mystic. 

The Wanton, or the Sceptic. 

The Slave, or he who stands before the veil of the Outer Court. 

The Warrior, or he who stands before the veil of the Inner Court. 

The King, or he who stands before the veil of the Abyss. 

The White Watch-tower, or the Awakened One. {161} 

The third method is found almost entirely in the second Book. 

The third and fourth Books of this essay consist of purely symbolic pictures. For the Key of the Portal the neophyte must discover for himself; and until he finds the Key the Temple of Solomon the King must remain closed to him. 

Vale! 

{162} 

BOOK I 
The foundations of the Temple 
of 
SOLOMON THE KING 
and 
The nine cunning Craftsmen who 
laid them between the 
Watch-towers of 
Night & Day. 

{163) 
And from that place are cast  
out all the Lords who are the  
exactors of the debts of man-   
kind, and they are subjugated.  
The Greater Holy Assembly, xx. 
440. 
{164} 

{Illustration on this page: This is a nine-pointed star, unicursal in design, with the points filled in by black triangle wedges about 1/16 inch from the outline. The unicrusality is such that lines connecting the points of the star pass centerward of three points in every instance. The center is occupied by a white disk such that the circumference of the disk is 1/16 inch larger than a disk coterminus with the inner angles of the points of the outer star. This disk completely obscures the continuations of the lines which make the noneagram unicursal, but the inner angles complete themselves upon it. The white disk cuts arcs to form bases for the black "triangle" wedges. On top of this disk are two triangles, one white (black outlined and white between the outlines) and the other black (composed of thick lines or bars), which form a hexagram exactly circumscribed by an invisible circle coterminus with the points of the inner angles of the noneagram and 1/16 inch smaller than the concentric white disk. The triangles oriented with the black triangle apex down and white triangle apex up. The outer edges of the black triangle are continuations of lines forming the unicursal nine-pointed star for three lines. These two triangles are interlaced in such fashion that traveling from any apex counterclockwise crosses over a line of the opposite color, then under a line of the opposite color and then reaches an adjacent apex of the same triangle}  

{165} 

THE BLACK WATCH-TOWER 

WHO has not, at some period during his life, experienced that strange sensation of utter bewilderment on being awakened by the sudden approach of a bright light across the curtained threshold of slumber; that intoxicating sense of wonderment, that hopeless inability to to open wide the blinded eyes before the dazzling flame which has swept night into the corners and crannies of the dark bedchamber of sleep? 
Who, again, has not stepped from the brilliant sunlight of noon into some shadowy vault, and, groping along its dark walls, has found all there to be but as the corpse of day wrapped in a starless shroud of darkness? 

Yet as the moments speed by the sight grows accustomed to the dazzling intruder; and as the blinding, shimmering web of silver which he has thrown around us melts like a network of snow before the awakening fire of our eyes, we perceive that the white flame of bewilderment which had but a moment ago enwrapped us as a mantle of lightnings, is, but in truth, a flickering rushlight fitfully expiring in an ill-shapen socket of clay. And likewise in the darkness, as we pass along the unlit arches of the vault, or the lampless recesses which, toad-like, squat here and there in the gloom, dimly at first do the mouldings of the roof and the cornices of the {167} walls creep forth; and then, as the twilight becomes more certain, do they twist and writhe into weirdly shapen arabesques, into fanciful figures, and contorted faces; which, as we advance, bat-like flit into the depths of a deeper darkness beyond. 

Stay! --- and but for a moment hurry back, and bring with you that little rushlight we left spluttering on the mantel-shelf of sleep. Now all once again vanishes, and from the floor before us jut up into the shadowland of darkness the stern grey walls of rock, the age-worn architraves, the clustered columns, and all the crumbling capitols of Art, where the years alone sit shrouded slumbering in their dust and mould --- a haunting memory of long-forgotten days. 

O dreamland of wonder and mystery! like a tongue of gold wrapped in a blue flame do we hover for a moment over the Well of Life; and then the night-wind rises, and wafts us into the starless depths of the grave. We are like gnats hovering in the sunbeams, and then the evening falls and we are gone: and who can tell whither, and unto what end? Whether to the City of Eternal Sleep, or to the Mansion of the Music of Rejoicing? 

O my brothers! come with me! follow me! Let us mount the dark stairs of this Tower of Silence, this Watch-tower of Night; upon whose black brow no flickering flame burns to guide the weary wanderer across the mires of life and through the mists of death. Come, follow me! Grope up these age-worn steps, slippery with the tears of the fallen, and bearded with the blood of the vanquished and the salt of the agony of failure. Come, come! Halt not! Abandon all! Let us ascend. Yet bring with ye two things, the flint and the steel {168} --- the slumbering fire of Mystery, and the dark sword of Science; that we may strike a spark, and fire the beacon of Hope which hangs above us in the brasier of Despair; so that a great light may shine forth through the darkness, and guide the toiling footsteps of man to that Temple which is built without hands, fashioned without iron, or gold, or silver, and in which no fire burns; whose pillars are as columns of light, whose dome is as a crown of effulgence set betwixt the wings of Eternity, and upon whose altar flashes the mystic eucharist of God. {169} 

THE MISER 

"GOD." What a treasure-house of wealth lies buried in that word! what a mine of precious stones! --- Ptah, Father of Beginnings, he who created the Sun and the Moon; Nu, blue, starry lady of Heaven, mistress and mother of the gods; Ea, Lord of the Deep; Istar --- "O Thou who art set in the sky as a jewelled circlet of moonstone"; Brahma the golden, Vishnu the sombre, and Siva the crimson, lapped in seas of blood. Everywhere do we find Thee, O Thou one and awful Eidolon, who as Aormuzd once didst rule the sun-scorched plains of Euphrates, and as Odin the icy waves and the shrieking winds, round the frozen halls of the North. 
Everywhere! --- everywhere! And yet now Thou art again God, nameless to the elect --- O Thou vast inscrutable Pleroma built in the Nothingness of our imagination! --- and to the little ones, the children who play with the units of existence, but a myriad-named doll a cubit high, a little thing to play with --- or else: an ancient, bearded Father, with hair as white as wool, and eyes like flames of fire; whose voice is as the sound of many waters, in whose right hand tremble the seven stars of Heaven, and out of whose mouth flashes forth a flaming sword of fire. There dost Thou sit counting the orbs of Space, and the souls of men: and we tremble before Thee, {170} worshipping, glorifying, supplicating, beseeching; lest perchance Thou cast us back into the furnace of destruction, and place us not among the gold and silver of Thy treasury. 

True, Thou hast been the great Miser of the worlds, and the Balances of Thy treasure-house have weighed out Heaven and Hell. Thou hast amassed around Thee the spoil of the years, and the plunder of Time and of Space. All is Thine, and we own not even the breath of our nostrils, for it is but given us on the usury of our lives. 

Still from the counting-house of Heaven Thou hast endowed us with a spirit of grandeur, an imagination of the vastness of Being. Thou hast taken us out of ourselves, and we have counted with Thee the starry hosts of night, and unbraided the tangled tresses of the comets in the fields of Space. We have walked with Thee at Mamre, and talked with Thee in Eden, and listened to Thy voice from out the midst of the whirlwind. And at times Thou hast been a Father unto us, a joy, strong as a mighty draught of ancient wine, and we have welcomed Thee! 

But Thy servants --- those self-seeking, priestly usurers --- See! how they have blighted the hearts of men, and massed the treasure of Souls into the hands of the few, and piled up the coffers of the Church. How they racked from us the very emblems of joy, putting out our eyes with the hot irons of extortion, till every pound of human flesh was soaked as a thirsty sponge in a well of blood: and life became a hell, and men and women went singing, robed in the san-benito painted with flames and devils, to the stake; to seek in the fire the God of their forefathers --- that stern Judge who with sworded hand was once wont to read out the names of the living from {171} the Book of Life, and exalt the humble on the golden throne of tyrants. 

Yet in these ages of crucifix, of skull, and of candle; these ages of auto-da-fe and in pace; these ages when the tongue jabbered madness and the brain reeled in delirium, and the bones were split asunder, and the flesh was crushed to pulp, was there still in the darkness a glamour of truth, as a great and scarlet sunset seen through the memory of years. Life was a shroud of horror, yet it was life! Life! life in the awful hideous grandeur of gloom, until death severed the dull red thread with a crooked sword of cruel flame. And Love, a wild, mad ecstasy, broken-winged, fluttering before the eyeless sockets of Evil, as the souls of men were bought and sold and bartered for, till Heaven became a bauble of the rich, and Hell a debtor's dungeon for the poor. Yet amongst those rotting bones in the oubliette, and in those purple palaces of papal lust, hovered that spirit of life, like a golden flame rolled in a cloud of smoke over the dark altar of decay. 

Listen: "Have you got religion? ... Are you saved? ... Do you love Jesus?" ... "Brother, God can save you. ... Jesus is the sinner's friend. ... Rest your head on Jesus ... dear, dear Jesus!" Curse till thunder shake the stars! curse till this blasphemy is cursed from the face of heaven! curse till the hissing name of Jesus, which writhes like a snake in a snare, is driven from the kingdom of faith! Once "Eloi, Eloi, Lamma Sabachthani" echoed through the gloom from the Cross of Agony; now Jerry McAuley, that man of God, ill-clothed in cheap Leeds shoddy, bobbing in a tin Bethel, bellows, "Do you love Jesus?" and talks of that mystic son of Him who set forth the sun and the moon, and {172} all the hosts of Heaven, as if he were first cousin to Mrs. Booth or to Aunt Sally herself. 

Once man in the magic land of mystery sought the elixir and the balsam of life; now he seeks "spiritual milk for American babes, drawn from the breasts of both Testaments." Once man, in his frenzy, drunken on the wine of Iacchus, would cry to the moon from the ruined summit of some temple of Zagraeus, "Evoe ho! Io Evoe!" But now instead, "Although I was quite full of drink, I knew that God's work begun in me was not going to be wasted!" 

Thus is the name of God belched forth in beer and bestial blasphemy. Who would not rather be a St. Besarion who spent forty days and nights in a thorn-bush, or a St. Francis picking lice from his sheepskin and praising God for the honour and glory of wearing such celestial pearls in his habit, than become a smug, well-oiled evangelical Christian genteel-man, walking to church to dear Jesus on a Sabbath morning, with Prayer-book, Bible, and umbrella, and a three- penny-bit in his glove? {173} 

THE SPENDTHRIFT 

"ARCADIA, night, a cloud, Pan, and the moon." What words to conjure with, what five shouts to slay the five senses, and set a leaping flame of emerald and silver dancing about us as we yell them forth under the oaks and over the rocks and myrtle of the hill-side. "Bruised to the breast of Pan" --- let us flee church, and chapel, and meeting-room; let us abandon this mantle of order, and leap back to the heaths, and the marshes, and the hills; back to the woods, and the glades of night! back to the old gods, and the ruddy lips of Pan! 
How the torches splutter in the storm, pressing warm kisses of gold on the gnarled and knotted trunks of the beech trees! How the fumigation from musk and myrrh whirls up in an aromatic cloud from the glowing censer! --- how for a time it greedily clings to the branches, and then is wafted to the stars! Look! --- as we invoke them, how they gather round us, these Spirit of Love and of Life, of Passion, of Strength, and of Abandon --- these sinews of the manhood of the World! 

O mystery of mysteries! "For each one of the Gods is in all, and all are in each, being ineffably united to each other and to God; because each, being a super-essential unity, their {174} conjunction with each other is a union of unities." Hence each is all; thus Nature squanders the gold and silver of our understanding, till in panic frenzy we beat our head on the storm-washed boulders and the blasted trunks, and shout forth, "Io ... Io ... Io ... Evoe! Io ... Io!" till the glades thrill as with the music of syrinx an sistrum, and our souls are rent asunder on the flaming horns of Pan. 

Come, O children of the night of Death, awake, arise! See, the sun is nodding in the West, and no day-spring is at hand in this land of withered dreams; for all is dull with the sweat of gloom, and sombre with the industry of Evil! Wake! O wake! Let us hie to the summits of the lonely mountains, for soon a sun will arise in us, and then their white peaks will become golden and crimson and purple as the breasts of a mighty woman swollen with the blood and milk of a new life. There, amongst those far-off hills of amethyst, shall we find the fair mistress of our heart's desire --- that bountiful Mother who will clasp us to her breast. 

Yours are the boundless forests, and the hills, and the far-off purple of the horizon. Call, and they shall answer you; ask, and they shall shower forth on you the hoarded booty of the years, and all the treasure of the ages; so that none shall be in need, and all shall possess all in the longing for all things. Come, let us shatter the vault of Circumstance and the walls of the dungeon of Convention, and back to Pan in the tangled brakes, and to the subtle beauty of the Sorceress, and to the shepherd-lads --- back to the white flocks on the hill-side, back to Pan --- to Pan --- to Pan! Io! to Pan. 

Under the mistletoe and the oak there is no snickering of the chapel-pew, no drawing-room grin of lewd desire, no {175} smacking of wanton lips over the warm flesh and the white skin of life; but a great shout of joyous laughter arises, which sways the winds from their appointed courses, and rattles down the dead branches from the leafy boughs overhead: or, all is solemn and still as a breathless night; for here life is ever manly in turmoil as in repose. 

Here there is no barter, no usury, no counting of the gains and losses of life; and the great Sower leaps over the fields like a madman, casting forth the golden grain amongst the briars, and on the rocks, as well as between the black furrows of the earth; for each must take its chance, and battle to victory in manliness and strength. Here there is neither sect nor faction: live or die, prosper or decay! So the great live, and the little ones go back to the roots of life. Neither is their obedience outside the obedience which is born of Necessity; for here there is no support, no resting on others --- ploughshares are beaten into swords, and spindles are fashioned into the shafts of arrows, and the winds shriek through our armour as we battle for the strength of the World. 

The rain falleth upon the deserts as upon the fertile valleys; and the sun shineth upon the blue waters as upon the verdant fields; and the dew heedeth not where it sleepeth, whether on the dung-hill, or betwixt the petals of the wild rose; for all is lavish in this Temple of the World, where on the throne of inexhaustible wealth sits the King of Life, tearing the jewels from his golden throat, and casting them out to the winds to be carried to the four corners of the Earth. There is no thrift here, no storing up for the morrow; and yet there is no waste, no wantonness, for all who enter {176} this Treasure-house of Life become one with the jewels of the treasury. 

Words! ... words! ... words! They have shackled and chained you, O children of the mists and the mountains; they have imprisoned you, and walled you up in the dungeon of a lightless reason. Fancy has been burnt at the stake of Fact; and the imagination cramped in the irons of tort and quibble. O vanity of vain words! O cozening, deceitful art! Nimbly do the great ones of to-day wrestle with the evil-smelling breath of their mouths, twisting and contorting it into beguilements, bastardising and corrupting the essence of things, sucking as a greedy vampire the blood from your hearts, and breathing into your nostrils the rigid symbols of law and of order, begotten on the death-bed of their understanding. 

O children of Wonder and of Fancy, fly to the wild woods whilst yet there is time! Back to the mysteries of the shadowy oaks, to the revolt of imagination, to the insurrection of souls, to the moonlit festivals of love: back where the werewolf lurks, and the moonrakes prowl. Back, O back to the song of life, back to the great God Pan! And there, wrapped in your goat-skins, drink with the shepherds of Tammuz out of the skin of a suckling yet unborn, and ye shall become as the silver-gleaming waters of Istar --- pure and bright! Speed, for he is the divine king of the fauns and the satyrs, the dryads and the oreads; the Lord of the Crowns; the Decider of Destiny; the God who prospers all above and beneath! And tarry not, lest as ye wander along the shore of the Ionian Sea ye hear a voice of lamentation crying, "Great Pan is dead!" {177} 

THE BANKRUPT 

O WHERE are the terraced gardens of Babylon, with their mighty groves towering up amongst the clouds? O where is the sun-god of Rhodes, whose golden brow was wont to blush with the first fire of dawn, whilst yet the waters at his feet were wrapped in the mists of night? O where is the Temple of Ephesus, and those who cried unto Diana? O where is the gleaming eye of Pharos that shone as a star of hope over the wild waters of the sea? Children of monsters and of gods, how have ye fallen! for a whirlwind hath arisen and swept through the gates of Heaven, and rushed down on the kingdoms of Earth, and as a tongue of consuming flame hath it licked up the handicrafts of man and cloaked all in the dust of decay. A yoke hath been laid on the shoulders of the ancient lands; and where once the white feet of Semiramis gleamed amongst the lilies and roses of Babylon there now the wild goats leap, and browse the sparse rank grass which sprouts in tufts from the red and yellow sand- heaps, those silent memorial mounds which mark the spot where once stood palaces of marble, and of jasper, and of jade. O woe! O woe! for all is dust and ruin; the flood- gates of the years have been opened, and Time has swept away as a mighty wind the embattled castles of kings with the mud-daubed {178} huts of shepherds. Merodach has gone, and so has Ea, and no longer doth Istar flame in the night, or cast down her kisses on the sparkling goblets in the palace of Belshazzar. Isis, dark-veiled, hath departed, and Nu no longer uplifteth the Sun-bark with the breath of dawn. O Amen, bull fair of face, where is thy glory? Thebes is in ruins! O Lord of joy, O mighty one of diadems! The Sekhet crown has fallen from thy brow, and the strength of thy life hath departed, and thine eyes are as the shrouded shadows of night. Olympus is but a barren hill, and Asgard a land of sullen dreams. Alone in the desert of years still crouches the Sphinx, unanswered, unanswerable, inscrutable, age-worn, coeval with the aeons of eld; even facing the east and thirsting for the first rays of the rising sun. She was there when Cheops and Khephren builded the pyramids, and there will she sit when Yahveh has taken his appointed seat in the silent halls of Oblivion. 
The fool hath said in his heart, "There is no God!" Yet the wise man has sat trembling over the ruins of the past, and has watched with fearful eyes the bankruptcy of Splendour, and all the glory of man fall victim to the usury of Time. 

O God, what art Thou that Thou dost abandon the kingdoms of this world, as a wanton woman her nightly lovers; and that they depart from Thee, and remember and regret Thee not? Yet thou art so vast that I cannot grasp Thee; Time flees before Thee, and Space is as a bauble in thine hands. O monstrous vacancy of vastness! Thou surpassest me, and I am lost in the contemplation of Thy greatness. 

The old gods slew Ymer the giant; and from his blood they poured out the seas; and from his flesh they dug the {179} land; and the rocks were fashioned out of his bones; and Asgard, fair dwelling-house of gods, was builded from the brows of his eyes; and from his skull was wrought the purple vault of Immensity; and from his brains were woven the fleecy clouds of heaven. But thou art more than Ymer; Thy feet are planted deeper than the roots of Igdrasil, and the hair of Thine head sweepeth past the helm of thought. Nay, more, vastly more; for Thou art bloodless, and fleshless, and without bones; Thou (O my God!) art nothing --- nothing that I can grasp can span Thee. Yea! nothing art Thou, beyond the Nothingness of the Nothingness of Eternity! 

Thus men grew to believe in NO-GOD, and to worship NO- GOD, and to be persecuted for NO-GOD, and to suffer and to die for NO-GOD. And now they torture themselves for him, as they had of yore gashed themselves with flints at the footstool of God His Father; and to the honour of His name, and as a proof of His existence, have they not built up great towers of Science, bastions of steam and of flame, and set a-singing the wheels of Progress, and all the crafts and the guiles and the artifices of Knowledge? They have contained the waters with their hands; and the earth they have set in chains; and the fire they have bound up as a wisp of undried straw; even the winds they have ensnared as an eagle in a net; --- yet the Spirit liveth and is free, and they know it not, as they gaze down from their Babel of Words upon the soot-grimed fields, and the felled forests, and the flowerless banks of their rivers of mud, lit by the sun which glows red through the hooded mists of their magic. 

Yet he who gazeth into the heavens, and crieth in a loud voice, "There is NO-GOD," is as a prophet unto mankind; {180} for he is as one drunken on the vastness of Deity. Better to have no opinion of God than such an opinion as is unworthy of Him. Better to be wrapped in the black robe of unbelief than to dance in the stinking rags of blasphemy. So they learnt to cry, "For the children, belief and obedience; for us men, solitude" --- the monarchy of Mind, the pandemoniacal majesty of Matter! 

"A Bible on the centre-table in a cottage pauperises the monarchical imagination of man"; but a naked woman weeping in the wilderness, or singing songs of frenzy unto Istar in the night, from the ruined summit of Nineveh, invoking the elemental powers of the Abyss, and casting the dust of ages about her, and crying unto Bel, and unto Assur, and unto Nisroch, and smiting flames from the sun-scorched bones of Sennacherib with the age-worn sword of Sharezer and Adrammelech, is a vision which intoxicates the brain with the sparkling wine of imagination, and sets the teeth a- rattling in the jaws, and the tongue a-cleaving to the palate of the mouth. 

But the book-men have slain the Great God, and the twitterers of words have twisted their squeaking screws into his coffin. The first Christians were called Atheists; yet they believed in God: the last Christians are called Theists; yet they believe not in God. So the first Freethinkers were called Atheists; yet they believed in NO- GOD: and the last Freethinkers will be called Theists; for they will believe not in NO-GOD. Then indeed in these latter days may we again find the Great God, that God who liveth beyond the twittering of man's lips, and the mumblings of his mouth. 

Filled with the froth of words, have these flatulent fools argued concerning God. Not as the bard sung of Ymer; {181} but as the cat purrs to the strangling mouse: "Since God is First Cause, therefore he possesses existence "a se;" therefore he must be both necessary and absolute, and cannot be determined by anything else." Nevertheless these wise doctors discuss him as if he were a corpse on the tables of their surgeries, and measure his length with their foot- rules, and stretch and lop him to fit the bed of their Procrustean metaphysic. Thus he is absolutely unlimited from without, and unlimited also from within, for limitation is non-being, and God is being itself, and being is all- things, and all-things is no-thing. And so we find Epicurus walking arm in arm, from the temple of windy words, with Athanasius, and enter the market-place of life, and the throng of the living --- that great tongueless witness of God's bounty; and mingle with the laughing boys, showering rose-leaves on Doris and Bacchis, and blowing kisses to Myrtale and Evardis. 

God or No-God --- so let it be! Still the Sun rises and sets, and the night-breeze blows the red flames of our tourches athwart the palm-trees, to the discomfiture of the stars. Look! --- in the distance between the mighty paws of the silent Sphinx rests a cubical temple whose god has been called Ra Harmakhis, the Great God, the Lord of the Heaven, but who in truth is nameless and beyond name, for he is the Eternal Spirit of Life. 

Hush --- the sistrum sounds from across the banks of the dark waters. The moon rises, and all is as silver and mother-of-pearl. A shepherd's pipe shrills in the distance --- a kid has strayed from the fold. ... O stillness ... O mystery of God ... how soft is Thy skin ... how fragrant is Thy breath! Life as a strong wine flames through me. The {182} frenzy of resistance, the rapture of the struggle --- ah! the ecstasy of Victory. ... The very soul of life lies ravished, and the breath has left me. ... A small warm hand touches my lips --- O fragrance of love! O Life! ... Is there a God? 

{183} 

THE PRUDE 

A FLY once sat upon the axle-tree of a chariot, and said: "What a dust do I raise!" Now a swarm of flies has come --- the fourth plague of Egypt is upon us, and the land is corrupted by reason of their stench. The mighty ones are dead, the giants are no more, for the sons of God come not in unto the daughters of men, and the world is desolate, and greatness and renown are gone. To-day the blue blow-flies of decay sit buzzing on the slow-rolling wheel of Fortune, intoxicated on the dust of the dead, and sucking putrefaction from the sinews of the fallen, and rottenness from the charnel-house of Might. 
O Reason! Thou hast become as a vulture feasting off the corpse of a king as it floats down the dark waters of Acheron. Nay! not so grand a sight, but as an old, wizened woman, skaldy and of sagging breast, who in the solitude of her latrina cuddles and licks the oleograph of a naked youth. O Adonis, rest in the arms of Aphrodite, seek not the hell-fouled daughter of Ceres, who hath grown hideous in the lewd embrace of the Serpent-God, betrayer of the knowledge of good and of evil. Behold her bulging belly and her shrivelled breasts, full of scale and scab --- "bald, rotten, abominable!" Her tears no longer blossom into the anemones of Spring; {184} for their purity has left them, and they are become as the bilge which poureth forth from the stern of a ship full of hogs. O! Eros, fly, speed! Await not the awakening oil to scorch Thy cheek, lest Thou discover that Thy darling has grown hideous and wanton, and that in the place of a fair maiden there slimeth a huge slug fed of the cabbage-stalks of decay. 

O Theos! O Pantheos! O Atheos! Triple God of the brotherhood of warriors. Evoe! I adore Thee, O thou Trinity of might and majesty --- Thou silent Unity that rulest the hearts of the great. Alas! that men are dead, their thrones of gold empty, and their palaces of pearl fallen into ruin! Grandeur and Glory have departed, so that now in the Elysian fields the sheep of woolly understanding nibble the green turnip-tops of reason and the stubble in the reaped cornfields of knowledge. Now all is rational, virtuous, smug, and oily. Those who wrestled with the suns and the moons, and trapped the stars of heaven, and sought God on the summits of the mountains, and drove Satan into the bowels of the earth, have swum the black waters of Styx, and are now in the halls of Asgard and the groves of Olympus, amongst the jewels of Havilah and the soft-limbed houris of Paradise. They have left us, and in their stead have come the carrion kites, who have usurped the white thrones of their understanding, and the golden palaces of their wisdom. 

Let us hie back to the cradle of Art and the swaddling bands of Knowledge, and watch the shepherds, among the lonely hills where the myrtle grows and the blue-bells ring out the innocence of Spring, learning from their flocks the mysteries of life. ... A wolf springs from the thicket, and a lamb lies sweltering in its blood; then an oaken cudgel is {185} raised, and Hermas has dashed out the brains from betwixt those green, glittering eyes. There now at his feet lie the dead and the dying; and man wonders at the writhing of the entrails and the bubbling of the blood. See! now he gathers in his flock, and drives them to a dark cavern in the sloping side of the mountain; and when the moon is up he departs, speeding to his sister the Sorceress to seek of her balsams and herbs wherewith to stanch his wound and to soothe the burning scratches of the wolf's claws. There under the stars, whilst the bats circle around the moon, and the toad hops through the thicket, and the frogs splash in the mere, he whispers to her, how green were the eyes of the wild wolf, how sharp were his claws, how white his teeth and then, how the entrails wriggled on the ground, and the pink brains bubbled out their blood. Then both are silent, for a great awe fills them, and they crouch trembling amongst the hemlock and the foxgloves. A little while and she arises, and, pulling her black hood over her head, sets out alone through the trackless forest, here and there lit by the moon; and, guided by the stars, she reaches the city. 

At a small postern by the tower of the castle known as the "lover's gate" she halts and whistles thrice, and then, in shrill, clear notes as of some awakened night-bird, calls: "Brother, brother, brother mine!" Soon a chain clanks against the oaken door, and a bolt rumbles back in its staple, and before her in his red shirt and his leathern hose stands her brother the Hangman. And there under the stars she whispers to him, and for a moment he trembles, looking deep into her eyes; then he turns and leaves her. Presently there is a creaking of chains overhead --- an owl, awakened from the {186} gibbet above, where it had been blinking perched on the shoulder of a corpse, flies shrieking into the night. 

Soon he returns, his footsteps resounding heavily along the stone passage, and in his arms he is carrying the dead body of a young man. "He, my little sister," he pants, and for a moment he props his heavy load up against the door of the postern. Then these two, the Sorceress and the Hangman, silently creep out into the night, back into the gloom of the forest, carrying between them the slumbering Spirit of Science and Art sleeping in the corse of a young man, whose golden hair streams gleaming in the moonlight, and around whose white throat glistens a snake-like bruise of red, of purple, and of black. 

There under the oaks by an age-worn dolmen did they celebrate their midnight mass. ... "Look you! I must needs tell you, I love you well, as you are to-night; you are more desirable than ever you have been before ... you are built as a youth should be. ... Ah! how long, how long have I loved you! ... But to-day I am hungry, hungry for you! ..." 

Thus under the Golden Bough in the moonlight was the host uplifted, and the Shepherd, and the Hangman, and the Sorceress broke the bread of Necromancy, and drank deep of the wine of witchcraft, and swore secrecy over the Eucharist of Art. 

Now in the place of the dolmen stands the hospital, and where the trilithons towered is built the "Hall of Science." Lo! the druid has given place to the doctor; and the physician has slain the priest his father, and with wanton words ravished the heart of his mother the sorceress. Now {187} instead of the mystic circle of the adepts we have the great "Bosh-Rot" school of Folly. Miracles are banned, yet still at the word of man do the halt walk, and the lame rise up and run. The devils have been banished, and demoniacal possession is no more, yet now the most lenient of these sages are calling it "hystero-demonopathy" --- what a jargon of unmusical syllables! Saul, when he met God face to face on the dusty road of Damascus, is dismissed with a discharging lesion of the occipital cortex; and George Fox crying, "Woe to the bloody city of Lichfield!" is suffering from a disordered colon; whilst Carlyle is subject to gastro-duodenal catarrh. Yet this latter one writes: "Witchcraft and all manner of Spectre-work, and Demonology, we have now named Madness, and Diseases of the Nerves; seldom reflecting that still the new question comes upon us: What is Madness, what are Nerves?" --- Indeed, what is Madness, what are Nerves? 

Once, when a child, I was stung by a bee whilst dancing through the heather, and an old shepherd met me, and taking a black roll of tobacco from a metal box, he bit off a quid and, chewing it, spat it on my leg, and the pain vanished. He did not spend an hour racking through the dictionary of his brain to find a suitable "itis" whereby to allay the inflammation, and then, having carefully classified it with another, declared the pain to be imaginary and myself to be an hysterio-monomaniac suffering from apiarian illusions! 

To-day Hercules is a sun-myth, and so are Osiris and Baal; and no may can raise his little finger without some priapic pig shouting: "Phallus ... phallus! I see a phallus! O what a phallus!" Away with this church-spire sexuality, {188} these atavistic obstetrics, these endless survivals and hypnoid states, and all these orchitic superficialities! Back to the fruits of life and the treasure-house of mystery! 

Let us leap beyond the pale of these pedantic dictionary proxenetes and this shuffling of the thumbed cards of Reason. Let us cease gnawing at this philosophic ham-bone, and abandon the thistles of rationalism to the tame asses of the Six-penny Cult, and have done with all this pseudo-scientce, this logic-chopping, this levelling loquacity of loons, louts, lubbers, and lunatics! 

O Thou rationalistic Boreas, how Thou belchest the sheep and with the flatulence of windy words! Away with the ethics and morals of the schoolmen, those prudish pedants whose bellies are swollen with the overboiled spinach of their sploshy virtues; and cease rattling the bread-pills of language in the bladder of medical terminology! The maniac's vision of horror is better than this, even the shambles clotted with blood; for it is the blood of life; and the loneliness of the distant heath is as a cup of everlasting wine compared with the soapsuds of these clyster-mongers, these purge-puffed prudes, who loose forth on us an evil-smelling gas from their cabbage-crammed duodenary canals. 

Yea! it shall pass by, this gastro-epileptic school of neurological maniacs; for in a little time we shall catch up with this moulting ostrich, and shall slay him whilst he buries his occipital cortex under the rubbish-heap of discharging lesions. Then the golden tree of life shall be replanted in Eden, and we little children shall dance round it, and shall banquet under the stars, feasting off the abandon of the wilderness and the freedom of the hills. Artists we shall {189} become, and in the storm shall we see a woman weeping; and in the lightning and the thunder the sworded warrior who crushes her to his shaggy breast. Away with laws and labours. ... Lo! in the groves of Pan the dance catches us up, and whirls us onward! O how we dash aside the goblets and the wine-skins, and how the tangled hair of our heads is blown amongst the purple clusters of the vine that clambers along the branches of the plane-trees in the Garden of Eros! 

But yet for a little while the mystic child of Freedom must sit weeping at the footstool of the old prude Reason, and spell out her windy alphabets whilst she squats like a toad above her, dribbling, filled with lewd thoughts and longings for the oleograph of the naked youth and the stinking secrecy of her latrina!  

THE CHILD 

UNDER the glittering horns of Capricornus, when the mountains of the North glistened like the teeth of the black wolf in the cold light of the moon, and when the broad lands below the fiery girdle of many-breasted Tellus blushed red in the arms of the summer sun, did Miriam seek the cave below the cavern, in which no light had ever shone, to bring forth the Light of the World. And on the third day she departed from the cave, and, entering the stable of the Sun, she placed her child in the manger of the Moon. Likewise was Mithras born under the tail of the Sea-Goat, and Horus, and Krishna --- all mystic names of the mystic Child of Light. 
I am the Ancient Child, the Great Disturber, the Great Tranquilliser. I am Yesterday, To-day, and To-morrow. My name is Alpha and Omega --- the Beginning and the End. My dwelling-house is built betwixt the water and the earth; the pillars thereof are of fire, and the walls are of air, and the roof above is the breath of my nostrils, which is the spirit of the life of man. 

I am born as an egg in the East, of silver, and of gold, and opalescent with the colours of precious stones; and with my Glory is the beast of the horizon made purple and scarlet, and orange, and green, many-coloured as a great peacock {191} caught up in the coils of a serpent of fire. Over the pillars of AEthyr do I sail, as a furnace of burnished brass; and blasts of fire pour from my nostrils, and bathe the land of dreams in the radiance of my Glory. And in the west the lid of mine Eye drops --- down smites the Night of reckoning and destruction, that night of the slaughter of the evil, and of the overthrow of the wicked, and the burning of the damned. 

Robed in the flames of my mouth, I compass the heavens, so that none shall behold me, and that the eyes of men shall be spared the torture of unutterable light. "Devourer of Millions of Years" is my name; "Lord of the Flame" is my name; for I am as an eye of Silver set in the heart of the Sun. Thou spreadest the locks of thine hair before thee, for I burn thee; thou shakest them about thy brow, so that thine eyes may not be blinded by the fire of my fury. I am He who was, who is, and who will be; I am the Creator, and the Destroyer, and the Redeemer of mankind. I have come as the Sun from the house of the roaring of lions, and at my coming shall there be laughter, and weeping, and singing, and gnashing of teeth. Ye shall tread upon the serpent and the scorpion, and the hosts of your enemies shall be as chaff before the sickle of your might: yet ye must be born in the cavern of darkness and be laid in the manger of the moon. 

Lo! I am as a babe born in a crib of lilies and roses, and wrapped in the swaddling bands of June. Mine hands are delicate and small, and my feet are shod in flame, so that they touch not the kingdoms of this earth. I arise, and leave the cradle of my birth, and wander through the valleys, and over the hills, across the sun-scorched deserts of day, and {192} through the cool groves of night. Everywhere, everywhere, I find myself, in the deep pools, and in the dancing streams, and in the many-coloured surface of the mere: there I am white and wonderful, a child of loveliness and of beauty, a child to entice songs from the wild rose, and kisses from the zephyrs of dawn. 

Herod would have slain me, and Kansa have torn me with his teeth of fire; but I eluded them, as a flame hidden in a cloud of smoke, and took refuge in the land of Ptah and sought sanctuary in the arms of Seb. There were the glories of Light revealed to me, and I became as a daughter of Ceres playing in the poppied fields of yellow corn: yet still as a sun-limbed bacchanal I trampled forth the foaming must from the purple grapes of Bacchus, and breathing it into the leaven of life, caused it to ferment, and bubble forth as the Wine of Iacchus. Then with the maiden, who was also myself. I partook of the Eucharist of Love --- the corn and the wine, and became one. 

Then there came unto me a woman subtle and beautiful to behold, whose breasts were as alabaster bowls filled with wine, and the purple hair of whose head was as a dark cloud on a stormy night. Dressed in a gauze of scarlet and gold, and jewelled with pearls and emeralds and magic stones, she, like a spider spun in a web of sunbeams and blood, danced before me, casting her jewels to the winds, and naked she sang to me: "O lover of mine heart, thy limbs are as chalcedony, white and round, and tinged with the mingling blush of the sapphire, the ruby, and the sard. Thy lips are as roses in June; and thine eyes as amethysts set in the vault of heaven. O! come kiss me, for I tremble for thee; fill me with love, {193} for I am consumed by the heat of my passion; say me, O slay me with kisses, burn me in the fire of thy kingdom, O slay me with the sword of thy rapture!" 

Then I cried unto her in a loud voice saying: "O Queen of the lusts of flesh! O Queen of the lands haunted by satyrs! O Mistress of Night! O Mother of the mysteries of birth and death! Who art girt in the flames of passion, and jewelled with emerald, and moonstone, and chrysoleth. Lo! on thy brow burns the star-sapphire of heaven, thy girdle is as the serpent of Eden, and round thine ankles chatter the rubies and garnets of hell. Hearken, O Lilith! O Sorceress of the blood of life! My lips are for those who suckle not Good, and my kisses for those who cherish not Evil. And my kingdom is for the children of light who trample under foot the garment of shame, and rend from their loins the sackcloth of modesty. When Two shall be One, then shalt thou be crowned with a crown neither of gold nor of silver, nor yet of precious stones; but as with a crown of fire fashioned in the light of God's glory. Yea! when my sword falleth, then that which is without shall be like unto that which is within; then tears shall be as kisses, and kisses as tears; then all shall be leavened and made whole, and thou shalt find in thine hand a sceptre, neither of lilies nor of gold, but a sceptre of light, yea! a sceptre of the holiness and loveliness of light and of glory!" 

O Children of the land of Dreams! O ye who would cross the bar of sleep, and become as Children of Awakenment and Light. Woe unto you! for ye cleanse outside the cup and the platter; but within they are full of uncleanness. Ye are soaked in the blood of corruption, and choked with {194} the vomit of angry words. Close your eyes, O ye neophytes in the mysteries of God, lest ye be blinded, and cry out like a man whose sight has been smitten black by a burning torch of tar. O Children of Dreams! plough well the fields of night, and prepare them for the Sower of Dawn. Heed lest the golden corn ripen and ye be not ready to pluck the swollen ears, and feast, and become as Bezaleel, filled with a divine spirit of wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge -- a cunning worker in gold, and in silver, and in brass, in scarlet, in purple, and in blue. 

But woe unto ye who tarry by the wayside, for the evening is at hand; to-day is the dawn, tomorrow the night of weeping. Gird up your loins and speed to the hills; and perchance on the way under the cedars and the oaks ye meet God face to face and know. But be not downcast if ye find not God in the froth or the dregs of the first cup: drink and hold fast to the sword of resolution --- onwards, ever onwards, and fear not! 

Devils shall beset the path of the righteous, and demons, and all the elemental spirits of the Abyss. Yet fear not! for they add grandeur and glory to the might of God's power. Pass on, but keep thy foot upon their necks, for in the region whither thou goest, the seraph and the snake dwell side by side. 

Sume lege. Open the Book of THYSELF, take and read. Eat, for this is thy body; drink, for this is the blood of thy redemption. The sun thou seest by day, and the moon thou beholdest by night, and all the stars of heaven that burn above thee, are part of thyself --- are thyself. And so is the bowl of Space which contains them, and the wine of Time in {195} which they float; for these two are part of thyself --- are Thyself. And God also who casteth them forth from the coffers of his treasury. He, too, though thou knowest it not, is part of thyself --- is THYSELF. All is in thee, and thou art in all, and separate existence is not, being but a net of dreams wherein the dreamers of night are ensnared. Read, and thou becomest; eat and drink, and thou art. 

Though weak, thou art thine own master; listen not to the babblers of vain words, and thou shalt become strong. There is no revelation except thine own. There is no understanding except thine own. There is no consciousness apart from thee, but that it is held feodal to thee in the kingdom of thy Divinity. When thou knowest thou knowest, and there is none other beside thee, for all becometh as an armour around thee, and thou thyself as an invulnerable, invincible warrior of Light. 

Heed not the pedants who chatter as apes among the treetops; watch rather the masters, who in the cave under the cavern breathe forth the breath of life. 

One saith to thee: 

"Abandon all easy, follow the difficult; eat not of the best, but of the most distasteful; pander not to thy pleasures, but feed well thy disgusts; console not thyself, but seek the waters of desolation; rest not thyself, but labour in the depths of the night; aspire not to things precious, but to things contemptible and low." 

But I say unto thee: heed not this vain man, this blatherer of words! For there is Godliness in ease, in fine dishes, and in pleasures, in consolations, in rest, and in precious things. 

So if in thyself thou findest a jewelled goblet, I say unto {196} thee, drink from it, for it is the cup of thy salvation; seek not therefore a dull bowl of heavy lead! 

Yet another saith unto thee: 

"Will not anything, will nothing; seek not for the best, but for the worst. Despise thyself; slander thyself; speak lightly of thyself." 

And again: 

"To enjoy the taste for all things, then have no taste for anything." 

"To know all things; then resolve to possess nothing." 

"To be all; then, indeed be willing to be naught." 

But I say unto thee: this one is filed like a fool's bladder with wind and a rattling of dried peas; for he who wills everything, is he who seeks of the best; for he who honours himself, he who prides himself most; and he who speaks highly of himself, is he who also shall reign in the City of God. 

"To have no taste for anything, then enjoy the taste of all things. 

"To resolve to possess nothing, then possess all things. 

"To be naught, then indeed be all." 

Open the book of Thyself in the cave under the cavern and read it by the light of thine own understanding, then presently thou shalt be born again, and be placed in the manger of the Moon in the stable of the Sun. 

For, children! when ye halt at one thing, ye cease to open yourselves to all things. For to come to the All, ye must give up the All, and likewise possess the All. Verily ye must destroy all things and out of No-thing found and build the Temple of God as set up by Solomon the King, which is {197} placed between Time and Space; the pillars thereof are Eternity, and the walls Infinity, and the floor Immortality, and the Roof --- but ye shall know of this hereafter! Spoil thyself if so thou readest thyself; but if it is written adorn thyself, then spare not the uttermost farthing, but deck thyself with all the jewels and gems of earth; and from a child playing with the sands on the sea- shore shalt thou become God, whose footstool is the Abyss, and from whose mouth goeth forth the sword of the salvation and destruction of the worlds, and in whose hand rest the seven stars of heaven. 

{198} 

THE WANTON 

THERE is a woman, young, and beautiful, and wise, who grows not old as she dances down the centuries: she was in the beginning, and she will be in the end, ever young, ever enticing, and always inscrutable. Her back is to the East and her eyes are towards the night, and in her wake lieth the world. Wherever she danceth, there man casteth the sweat from his brow and followeth her. Kings have fled their thrones for her; priests their temples; warriors their legions; and husbandmen their ploughs. All have sought her; yet ever doth she remain subtle, enticing, virginal. None have known her save those little ones who are born in the cave under the cavern; yet all have felt the power of her sway. Crowns have been sacrificed for her; gods have been blasphemed for her; swords have been sheathed for her; and the fields have lain barren for her; verily! the helm of man's thoughts has been cloven in twain by the magic of her voice. For like some great spider she has enticed all into the silken meshes of her web, wherein she hath spun the fair cities of the world, where sorrow sits tongueless and laughter abideth not; and tilled the fertile plains, where innocence is but as the unopened book of Joy. Yet it is she also who hath led armies into battle; it is she who hath brought frail vessels {199} safely across the greedy ocean; it is she who hath enthroned priests, crowned kings, and set the sword in the hand of the warrior; and it is she who hath helped the weary slave to guide his plough through the heavy soil, and the miner to rob the yellow gold from the bowels of the earth. Everywhere will you find her dancing down empires, and weaving the destiny of nations. She never sleeps, she never slumbers, she never rests; ever wakeful, day and night, her eyes glisten like diamonds as she danceth on, the dust of her feet burying the past, disturbing the present, and clouding the future. She was in Eden, she will be in Paradise! 
I followed her, I abandoned all for her; and now I lie, as a fevered man, raving in the subtle web of her beauty. 

Lo! there she stands swaying between the gates of Light and Darkness under the shadow of the Three of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, whose fruits are death; yet none that have not tasted thereof can tell whether they be sweet or bitter to the tongue. Therefore all must pluck and eat and dream. But when the time cometh for the mystic child to be born, they shall awake, and with eyes of fire behold that on the summit of the mountain in the centre of the garden there groweth the Tree of Life. 

Now round the trunk of the Tree and the lower branches thereof there twines a woman, wild, wanton, and wise; whose body is as that of a mighty serpent, the back of which is vermilion, and the belly of red-gold; her breasts are purple, and from her neck spring three heads. 

And the first head is as the head of a crown‚d princess, and is of silver, and on her brow is set a crown of pearls, and her eyes are as blue as the sapphire; but upon perceiving {200} man they turn green and yellow as the water of a troubled sea; and her mouth is as a moonstone cleft in twain, in which lurks a tongue born of flame and water. 

And on beholding her, I cried to her in a loud voice, saying: "O Priestess of the Veil who art throned between the Pillars of Knowledge and Ignorance, pluck and give me of the fruit of the Tree of Life that I may eat thereof, so that my eyes shall be opened, and that I become as a god in understanding, and live for ever!" 

Then she laughed subtly, and answered me saying: "Understanding, O fool that art so wise, is Ignorance. Fire licketh up water, and water quencheth fire; and the sword which one man fleeth from, another sheatheth in his breast. Seek the Crown of Truth, and thou shalt be shod with the sandals of Falsehood; unclasp the girdle of Virtue, and thou shalt be wrapped in the shroud of Vice." 

And, when she had finished speaking, she wove from her lips around me a net-work of cloud and of flame; and in a subtle song she sang to me: "In the web of my tongue hast thou been caught; in the breath of my mouth shalt thou be snared. For Time shall be given unto thee wherein to seek all things; and all things shall be thy curse, and thine understanding shall be as the waves of the sea ever rolling onwards to the shore from whence they came; and when at the height of their majesty shall their pride and dominion be dashed against the rocks of Doubt, and all thy glory shall become as the spume and the spray of shattered waters, blown hither and thither by the storm." 

Then she caught me up in the web of her subtleties and breathed into my nostrils the breath of Time; and bore me {201} to the Abyss, where all is as the darkness of Doubt, and there she strangled me with the hemp and the silk of the abominations and arrogance of mine understanding. 

And the second head is as the head of a young woman veiled with a veil as clear as rock crystal, and crowned with a crown fashioned in the shape of a double cube around which is woven a wreath of lilies and ivy. And her countenance is as that of Desolation yet majestic as an Empress of Earth, who possessing all things yet cannot find a helpmeet worthy to possess her; and her eyes are as opals of light; and her tongue as an arrow of flame. 

And on beholding her I cried in a loud voice saying: "O Princess of the Vision of the Unknown, who art throned as a sphinx between the hidden mysteries of Earth and Air, give me of the fruit of the Tree of Life that I may eat thereof, so that mine eyes shall be opened, and I may become as a god in understanding, and live for ever!" 

And when I had finished speaking she wept bitterly and answered me saying: "Verily if the poor man trespass within the palace gate, the king's dogs shall be let loose so that they may tear him in pieces. Also, if the king seek shelter in the hut of the pauper the louse taketh refuge in his hair, and heedeth not his crown nor his cap of ermine and gold. Now, thou, O wise man who art so foolish, askest for Understanding; yet how shall it be given unto him who asketh for it, for in the giving it it ceaseth to be, and he who asketh of me is unworthy to receive. Wouldst thou enter the king's palace in rags and beg crumbs of his bounty? Take heed lest, the king perceiving thee not, his knaves set the hounds upon thee, so that even the rags that thou possessest are torn from thee: or, {202} even should the kind cast his eyes on thee, that he be not overcome with fury at the presumption of thine offence, and order thee to be stripped naked and beaten from his garden with staves back to the hovel whence thou camest. And being a king, if thou seekest knowledge and understanding in a beggar's hut, thou shalt become as an abode of vermin, and a prey to hunger and thirst, and thy limbs shall be bitten by cold and scorched with fire, and all thy wealth will depart from thee and thy people will cast thee out and take away thy crown. Yet there is hope for the beggar and the king, and the balances which sway shall be adjusted, and the sun shall drink up the clouds, and the clouds shall swallow the sun, and there shall be neither darkness nor light. Pledge thy pride and it will become but the habitations of vermin, pledge thy humility and thou shalt be cast out naked to the dogs." 

Then when she had finished speaking she bared her breast to me, and it was as the colour of the vault of heaven at the rising of the sun; and she took me in her arms and did caress me, and her tongue of fire crept around and about me as the hand of a sly maid. Then I drank in the breath of her lips, and it filled me as with the spirit of dreams and of slumber, so that I doubted that the stars shone above me, and that the rivers flowed at my feet. Thus all became as a vast Enigma to me, a riddle set in the Unknowability of Space. 

Then in a subtle voice she sang to me: "I know not who thou art, or whence thou camest; whether from across the snowy hills, or from over the plains of fire. Yet I love thee; for thine eyes are as the blue of still waters, and thy lips ruddy as the sun in the West. Thy voice is as the voice of a {203} shepherd at even, calling together his flock in the twilight. Thy breath is as the wind blown from across a valley of musk; and thy loins are lusty as red coral washed from the depths of the sea. Come, draw nigh unto me, O my love: my sister ensnared thee with her subtle tongue, she gave thee to suck from the breasts of Time: come, I will give thee more than she, for I will give unto thee as an inheritance my body, and thou shalt fondle me as a lover, and as a reward for thy love will I endow thee with all the realms of Space --- the motes in the sunbeam shall be thine, and the starry palaces of night, all shall be thine even unto the uttermost depths of Infinity." So she possessed me, and I her. 

And the third head is as the head of a woman neither young nor old, but beautiful and compasionate; and on her forehead is set a wreath of Cypress and Poppies fastened by a winged cross. And her eyes are as star-sapphires, and her mouth is as a pearl, and on the lips crouches the Spirit of Silence. 

And on beholding her I cried to her in a loud voice, saying: "O Thou Mother of the Hall of Truth! Thou who art both sterile and pregnant, and before whose judgment-seat tremble the clothed and the naked, the righteous and the unjust, give me of the fruit of the Tree of Life, that I may eat thereof so that mine eyes shall be opened, and that I become as a god in understanding, and live forever!" 

Then I stood before her listening for her answer, and a great shaking possessed me, for she answered not a word; and the silence of her lips rolled around me as the clouds of night and overshadowed my soul, so that the Spirit of life left me. Then I fell down and trembled, for I was alone. {204} 

THE SLAVE 

THE blue vault of heaven is red and torn as the wound of a tongueless mouth; for the West has drawn her sword, and the Sun lies sweltering in his blood. The sea moans as a passionate bridegroom, and with trembling lips touches the swelling breasts of night. Then wave and cloud cling together, and as lovers who are maddened by the fire of their kisses, mingle and become one. 
Come, prepare the feast in the halls of the Twilight! Come, pour out the dark wine of the night, and bring in the far-sounding harp of the evening! Let us tear from our burning limbs the dusty robes of the morning, and, naked, dance in the silver radiance of the moon. Voices echo from the darkness, and the murmur of many lips lulls the stillness of departing day, as a shower in springtime whispering amongst the leaves of the sprouting beech trees. Now the wolves howl outside, and the jackals call from the thicket; but none heed them, for all inside is as the mossy bank of a sparkling streamlet --- full of softness and the flashing of many jewels. 

O where art thou, my loved one, whose eyes are as the blue of the far-off hills? O where art thou whose voice is as the murmur of distant waters? I stretch forth mine hands and feel {205} the rushes nodding in the wind; I gaze through the shadows, for the night mist is rising from the lake; but thee I cannot find. Ah! there thou art by the willow, standing between the bulrush and the water-lily, and thy form is as a shell of pearl caught up by the waves in the moonlight. Come, let us madden the night with our kisses! Come, let us drink dry the vats of our passion! Stay! Why fleest thou from me, as the awakened mist of the morning before the arrows of day? Now I can see thee no more; thou art gone, and the darkness hath swallowed thee up. O wherefore hast thou left me, me who loved thee, and wove kisses in thine hair? Behold, the Moon hath followed thee! Now I see not the shadows of the woods, and the lilies in the water have become but flecks of light in the darkness. Now they mingle and melt together as snow-flakes before the sun, and are gone; yea! the stars have fled the skies, and I am alone. 

How cold has grown the night, how still! O where art thou! Come, return unto me, that I stray not in vain; call unto me that I lose not my way! Lighten me with the brightness of thine eyes, so that I wander not far from the path and become a prey to the hunger of wild beasts! 

I am lost; I know not where I am; the mossy mountains have become as hills of wind, and have been blown far from their appointed places; and the waving fields of the valleys have become silent as the land of the dead, so that I hear then not, and know not whither to walk. The reeds whisper not along the margin of the lake; all is still; heaven has closed her mouth and there is no breath in her to wake the slumber of desolation. The lilies have been sucked up by the greedy waters, and now night sleeps like some mighty {206} serpent gorged on the white flesh and the warm blood of the trembling maidens of dawn, and the wild youths of the noon-tide. 

O my dove, my loved one! Didst thou but approach as a wanderer in the wilderness, thine hair floating as a raiment of gold about thee, and thy breasts lit with the blush of the dawn! Then would mine eyes fill with tears, and I would leap towards thee in the madness of my joy; but thou comest not. I am alone, and tremble in the darkness like the bleached bones of a giant in the depths of a windy tomb. 

There is a land in which no tree groweth, and where the warbling of the birds is as a forgotten dream. There is a land of dust and desolation, where no river floweth, and where no cloud riseth from the plains to shade men's eyes from the sand and the scorching sun. Many are they who stray therein, for all live upon the threshold of misery who inhabit the House of joy. There wealth taketh wing as a captive bird set free, and fame departeth as a breath from fainting lips; love playeth the wanton, and the innocence of youth is but as a cloak to cover the naked hideousness of vice; health is not known, and joy lies corrupted as a corpse in the grave; and behind all standeth the great slave master called Death, all-encompassing with his lash, all- desolating in the naked hideousness and the blackness wherewith he chastiseth. 

"I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and behold all was vanity and vexation of spirit." Yea! all are of dust, and turn to dust again, and the dead know not anything. Health has left me, wealth has departed from me, those whom I love have been taken from me, and now Thou {207} (O my God!) hast abandoned me, and cast me out, and setting a lock upon Thy lips hast stopped Thine ears with wax and covered Thine eyes with the palms of Thine hands, so that Thou seest me not, nor hearest me, nor answerest unto my bitter cry. Thus I am cast out from Thy presence and sit alone as one lost in a desert of sand, and cry unto Thee, thirsting for Thee, and then deny Thee and curse Thee in my madness, until death stop the blasphemies of my lips with the worm and the dust of corruption, and I am set free from the horror of this slavery of sorrow. 

I am alone, yea! alone, sole habitant of this kingdom of desolation and misery. Hell were as Paradise to this solitude. O would that dragons came from out the deep and devoured me, or that lions tore me asunder for their food; for their fury would be as milk and honey unto the bitterness of this torture. O cast unto me a worm, that I may no longer be alone, and that in its writhings on the sand I read Thine answer to my prayer! Would I were in prison that I might hear the groans of the captives; would I were on the scaffold that I might listen to the lewd jests of bloody men! O would I were in the grave, wound in the roots of the trees, eyeless gazing up into the blackness of death! 

Between the evening and the morning was I born, like a mushroom I sprang up in the night. At the breast of desolation was I fed, and my milk was as whey, and my meat as the bitterness of aloes. Yet I lived, for God was with me; and I feared, for the devil was at hand. I did not understand what I needed, I was afraid, and fear was as a pestilence unto my soul. Yet was I intoxicated and drunken on the cup of life, and joy was mine, and reeling I shrieked blasphemies {208} to the storm. Then I grew sober, and diced with mine understanding, and cheated mine heart, and lost my God, and was sold into slavery, and became as a coffin-worm unto the joy of my life. Thus my days grew dark, and I cried unto myself as my spirit left me: "O what of to-day which is as the darkness of night? O what then of to-morrow which is as the darkness of Eternity? Why live and tempt the master's lash?" So I sought the knife at my girdle to sunder the thread of my sorrow; but courage had taken flight with joy, and my hand shook so that the blade remained in its sheath. Then I cried unto myself: "Verily why should I do aught, for life itself hath become unto me as a swordless scabbard" --- so I sat still and gloomed into the darkness. 

{209} 

THE WARRIOR 

THERE is an indifference which overleaps satisfaction; there is a surrender which overthrows victory, there is a resignation which shatters the fetters of anxiety, a relaxation which casts to the winds the manacles of despair. This is the hour of the second birth, when from the womb of the excess of misery is born the child of the nothingness of joy. Solve! For all must be melted in the crucible of affliction, all must be refined in the furnace of woe, and then on the anvil of strength must it be beaten out into a blade of gleaming joy. Coagula!  
Weep and gnash your teeth, and sorrow sits crowned and exultant; therefore rise and gird on the armour of utter desolation! Slay anger, strangle sorrow, and drown despair; then a joy shall be born which is beyond love or hope, endurable, incorruptible. Come heaven, come hell! Once the Balances are adjusted, then shall the night pass away, and desire and sorrow vanish as a dream with the breath of the morning. 

The war of the Freedom of Souls is not the brawling of slaves in the wine-dens, or the haggling of the shopmen in the market-place; it is the baring of the brand of life, that unsheathing of the Sword of Strength which lays all low before the devastation of its blade. Life must be held in {210} contempt --- the life of self and the life of others. Here there must be no weakness, no sentiment, no reason, no mercy. All must taste of the desolation of war, and partake of the blood of the cup of death. O! warriors, ye cannot be too savage, to barbarous, too strong. On, O storm-blown sons of the fire of life! Success is your password; destruction is your standard; Victory is your reward! 

Heed not the shrieking of women, or the crying of little children; for all must die, and not a stone must be left standing in the city of the World, lest darkness depart not. Haste! bring flint and steel, light the match, fire the thatch of the hovel and the cedar rafters of the palace; for all must be destroyed, and no man must delay, or falter, or turn back, or repent. Then from the ashes of Destruction will rise the King, the birthless and the deathless one, the great monarch who shall shake from his tangled beard the blood of strife, and who shall cast from his weary hand the sword of desolation. 

Yea! from out the night flashes a sword of flame, from out the darkness speeds an arrow of fire! 

I am alone, and stand at the helm of the barque of Death, and laugh at the fury of the waves; for the prow of my laughter smiteth the dark waters of destruction into a myriad jewels of unutterable and uttermost joy! 

I am alone, and stand in the centre of the desert of Sorrow, and laugh at the misery of earth: for the music of my laughter whirleth the sands of desolation into a golden cloud of unutterable and uttermost joy! 

I am alone, and stand on the storm cloud of life, and laugh at the shrieking of the winds; for the wings of my {211} laughter sweep away the web of outer darkness, and reveal the stars of unutterable and uttermost joy! 

I am alone, and stand on the flames of the mountains of pleasure, and laugh at the fire of rapture; for the breath of my laughter bloweth the bright flames into a pillar of unutterable and uttermost joy. 

I am alone, and stand amongst the ghosts of the dead, and laugh at the shivering of the shades, for the heart of my laughter pulseth as a mighty fountain of blood clothing the shadows of night with the spirit of unutterable and uttermost joy! 

I am alone, yea alone, one against all; yet in my sword have I all things; for in it lives the strength of my might, and if joy come not at my beckoning, then joy shall be slain as a disobedient slave, and if sorrow depart not at my command, then shall sorrow speed through the valley of death as a foe that passeth not his neck beneath the yoke. 

In the bastion of mine imagination lie all the munitions of my might; and from the tower of my resolution do I sweep away the stars, and pour forth fire and water on the world of laughter and weeping. I cannot be despoiled, for none can approach me; I cannot be succoured, for I am far beyond the path of man's help. Yet neither would I if I could; for if I could, I would not; and if I would, I could not; for I have become as a giant amongst men, strong as he can only be who has feasted on the agony of life, and drunken of the cup of the sorrow of death, and towered above all things. 

Laugher is mine, not the laughter of bitterness, nor the laughter of jest; but the laughter of strength and of life. I live like a mighty conquering Lord and all things are mine. {212} Fair groves and gardens, palaces of marble and fortresses of red sandstones; and the coffers of my treasury are filled with gold and silver and precious stones; and before my path the daughters of pleasure dance with unbraided tresses, scattering lilies and roses along my way. Life is a joy indeed, a rapture of clinging lips and of red wine, which flows in beads along the bronze and purple tresses, and then like rubies of blood finds refuge between the firm white breasts of maddened maidenhood. 

Hark! ... What is that, the yelping of a dog? No, it is the death-cry of a man! ... Ay! the biting of sharp swords, and the shrieking of many women. Ho! the feast has indeed begun, the rabble have broken in, scythes glisten in the torch-light and tables are overturned; wine is gulped down by filthy mouths, and spilt and mingled with the blood of the slaughtered children of Eros, so that the banquet of love has become the shambles of death. ... 

Now all is still and the rose has given birth to the poppy, and the bronze tresses of the revellers lie motionless as snakes gorged on clotted blood, and shimmer wantonly in the moonlight between discovered limbs and disemboweled entrails. Soon the quivering maggots, which once were the brains of men, will lick up the crumbs of the feast in the temple of love, and the farce will be ended. 

I rise from the corpse of her I kissed, and laugh; for all is beautiful, more beautiful still; for I create from the godless butchery of fiends the overpowering grandeur of death. There she stands before me, rose-limbed, crimson- lipped, with breast of scarlet flame, her tresses floating about her like a cloud of ruby fire, and the tongue which creepeth from {213} her lips is as a carbuncle wet with the strong blood of warriors. I laugh, and in the frenzy of my exultation she is mine; and on that soft bed of bloody corpses do I beget on her the laughter of the scorn of war, the joy of the contempt of sorrow. 

Life is a horror, a writhing of famished serpents, yet I care not, for I laugh. The deserts awe me not, neither do the seas restrain the purpose of my mirth. Life is as prisoner in a dungeon, still I laugh; for I, in my strength, have begotten a might beyond the walls of prisons; for life and death have become one to me --- as little children gambolling on the sands and splashing in the wavelets of the sea. I laugh at their pretty play, and upon the billows of my laughter do I build up the Kingdom of the Great in which all carouse at one table. Here virgins mingle with courtesans, and the youth and the old man know neither wisdom nor folly. 

I have conquered the deserts and the forests, the valleys and the mountains, the seas and the lands. My palace is built of fire and water, of earth and of air, and the secret place within the sanctuary of my temple is as the abode of everlasting mirth. All is love, life, and laugher; death and decay are not: all is joy, purity, and freedom; all is as the fire of mystery; all is all; for my kingdom is known as the City of God. 

The slave weepeth, for he is alone; O be not slaves unto yourselves, lashing your backs with the sorrows of your own begetting. But rather become strong in the widowhood of your joy, and evoke from the horror of your seclusion the morion of the victory of resolution, and from the misery of your loneliness, the sword of the destruction of desire. Then {214} shall ye turn your faces towards the West, and stride after the night of desolation, and on the cup of the sunset shall ye become strong as warriors fed on the blood of bulls, and shall step out past the morning and the night in the manliness of might, to the conquest of thyself, and to the usurpation of the Throne of God! 

{215} 

THE KING 

THE King is the undying One; he is the life and the master of life; he is the great living image of the Sun, the Sun, and the begetter of the Sun. He is the Divine Child, the God-begotten One, and the Begetter of God. He is the potent bull, the jewelled snake, the fierce lion. He is the monarch of the lofty mountains, and the lord of the woods and forests, the indweller of the globes of flame. As a royal eagle he soars through the heavens, and as a great dragon he churns up the waters of the deep. He holds the past between his hands as a casket of precious stones, the future lies before him clear as a mirror of burnished silver, and to-day is as an unsheathed dagger of gold at his girdle. 
As a slave who is bold becomes a warrior, so a warrior who is fearless becomes a king, changing his battered helm of strength for a glittering crown of light; and as the warrior walks upright with the fearlessness of disdain in his eyes, so does the king walk with bowed head, finding love and beauty wherever he goeth, and whatever he doeth is true and lovely, for having conquered his self, he ruleth over his self by love alone, and not by the laws of good and evil, neither proudly nor disdainfully, neither by justice nor by mercy. Good and Evil is not his, for he hath become as an Higher Intelligence, {216} as an Art enshrined in the mind; and in his kingdom actions no longer defile, and whatever his heart inclineth him to do, that he doeth purely and with joy. And as the countenance of a singer may be ruddy or white, fair or dark, nevertheless, the redness or the whiteness, the fairness or the darkness, affect not the song of his lips, or the rapture of his music; similarly, neither does man-made virtue and vice, goodness and wickedness, strength and weakness, or any of the seeming opposites of life, affect or control the actions of the King; for he is free-born from the delusions and the dream of opposites, and sees things as they are, and not as the five senses reflect them on the mirror of the mind. 

Now he who would become as a king unto himself must not renounce the kingdoms of this world, but must conquer the lands and estates of others and usurp their thrones. Should he be poor he must aim at riches without forfeiting his poverty; should he be rich he must aim at possessing poverty as well, without taking one farthing from the coffers of his treasury. The man of much estate must aim at possessing all the land, until there is no kingdom left for him to conquer. The Unobtainable must be obtained, and in the obtaining of it is to be found the Golden Key of the Kingdom of Light. The virgin must become as the wanton, yet though filled with all the itchings of lust, she must in no wise forfeit the purity of her virginity; for the foundations of the Temple are indeed set between Day and Night, and the Scaffolding thereof is as an arch flung between Heaven and Hell. For if she who is a virgin become but as a common strumpet, then she indeed falls and rises not, becoming in her {217} fall but a clout in the eyes of all men, a foul rag wherewith to sop up the lusts of flesh. So, verily, if she who being a courtesan, becometh as an untouched virgin, she shall be considered as a thing of naught, being both sterile and loveless; for what profit shall she be to this world who is the mother of unfruitfulness? But she who is both crimson and white, a twisted pillar of snow and fire, soothing where she burneth, and comforting where she chilleth, she shall be held as queen amongst women; for in her all things are found, and as an inexhaustible well of water around whose mouth grows the wild apricot, in which the bees set their sweet hives, she shall be both food and drink to the hearts of men: a well of life unto this world, yea! a goodly tavern wherein cool wine is sold, and good cheer is to be had, and where all shall be filled with the joyaunce of love. 

Thus shall men attain to the unity of the crown and become as kings unto themselves. But the way is long and hilly and beset with many pitfalls, and it traverses a foul and a wild country. Indeed we see before us the towers and the turrets, the domes and the spires, the roofs and the gables, glittering beyond the purple of the horizon, like the helmets and spears of an army of warriors in the distance. But on approaching we find that the blue of the sky-line encompasses a dark wood wherein are all things unmindful of the Crown, and where there is darkness and corruption, and where lives the Tyrant of the World clothed in a robe of fantastic desires. Yet it is here that the Golden Key has been lost, where the hog, the wolf, the ape, and the bearded goat hold revel. Here are set the pavilions of dreams and the tented encampments of sleep, in which are spread the tables of demons, and where {218} feast the wantons and the prudes, the youths and the old men, and all the opposites of virtue and of vice. But he who would wear the crown must find the key, else the door of the Palace remains closed, for none other than he can open it for him. And he who would find the Key of Gold must seek it here in the outer court of the World, where the flatterers, and the parasites, and the hypocrites, buzz like flies over the fleshpots of life. 

Now he who enters the outer court sees set before him many tables and couches, at which with swollen veins revel the sons of the gluttony of life. Here men, in their furious love of greed, stuff their jaws with the luxuries of decay, which a little after go to the dunghill; and vomit their sour drink on one another as a certain sign of their good fellowship. Here they carouse together drunkenly as in a brothel filling the world with the noise of cymbal and drum, and the loud-sounding instruments of delusion, and with shouts of audacious shame. Here are their ears and eyes pleasantly titillated by the sound of the hissing of the frying-pans, and the sight of the bubbling of stews; and courting voracity, with necks stretched out, so that they may sniff up the wandering steam of the dishes, they fill their swollen bellies with things perishable, and drink up the gluttonies of life. Yet he who would partake of the Banquet of Light must pass this way and sojourn a while amongst these animals, who are so filled with swinish itchings and unbridled fornications that they perceive not that their manger and their dunghill lie side by side as twins in one bed. For a space he must listen to the hiccuping of those who are loaded with wine, and the snorting of those who are stuffed with food, and must {219} watch these lecherous beasts who insult the name of man rolling in their offal, gambolling, and itching with a filthy prurience after the mischievous delights of lewdness, drunkenly groping amongst the herds of long-haired boys and short-skirted girls, from whom they suck away their beauty, as milk from the udders of a goat. He must dwell for a time with these she-apes, smeared with white paint, mangled, daubed, and plastered with the "excrement of crocodiles" and the "froth of putrid humours," who are known as women. Disreputable hags who keep up old wives' whispering over their cups, and who, as filthy in body as in mind, with unbridled tongues clatter wantonly as they giggle over their sluttish whisperings, shamelessly making with their lips sounds of lewdness and fornication. And wanton young dabs with mincing gait swing their bodies here and there amongst the men, their faces smeared with the ensnaring devices of wily cunning. Winking boldly and babbling nonsense they cackle loudly, and like fowls scratching the dunghill seek the dirt of wealth; and having found it, pass their way to the gutter and the grave loaded with gold like a filthy purse. 

O seeker! All this must thou bear witness to, and become a partaker in, without becoming defiled or disgusted, and without contempt or reverence; then of a certain shalt thou find the Golden Key which turneth the bolt of evil from the staple of Good, and which openeth the door which leadeth unto the Palace of the King, wherein is the Temple. For when thou hast discovered Beauty and Wisdom and Truth in the swollen veins, in the distended bellies, in the bubbling lips, in the lewd gambollings, in the furious greed, the wanton {220} whisperings, the sly winkings, and all the shameless nonsense of the Outer Court, then indeed shalt thou find that the Key of gold is only to be found in the marriage of wantonness and chastity. And taking it thou shalt place it in the lock of cherubic fire which is fashioned in the centre of the door of the King's house, which is built of ivory and ebony and studded with jet and silver; and the door shall open for a time as if a flame had been blown aside, and thou shalt see before thee a table of pearl on which are set the hidden waters and the secret bread of the Banquet of Light. And thou shalt drink and eat and become bright as a stream of molten silver; and, as the light of the body is the eye, so shalt thy true self become as an eye unto thee, and see all things, even the cup of the third birth; and, taking it, thou shalt drink from the cup the eucharist of Freedom, the wine of which is more fragrant than the sweet-scented grapes of Thrace, or the musk- breathing vines of Lesbos, and is sweeter than the vintage of Crete, and all the vineyards of Naxos and Egypt. And thou shalt be anointed with sweet-smelling nards, and unguent made from lilies and cypress, myrtle and amaranth, and of myrrh and cassia well mixed. And in thine hair shall be woven rose-leaves of crimson light, and the mingling loveliness of lilies and violets, twined as the dawn with night. And about thee shall waft a sweeter fragrance than the burning of frankincense, and storax, and lign-aloes; for it is the breath of the Temple of God. Then shalt thou step into the King's Palace, O warrior! and a voice more musical than the flute of ivory and the psaltery of gold, clear as a bell of mingled metals in the night, shall call unto thee, and thou shalt follow it to the throne which is as a perfect cube of {221} flaming gold set in a sea of whiteness; and then shalt thou be unrobed of sleep and crowned with the silence of the King --- the silence of song, of thought, and of reason, that unthinkable silence of the Throne. 

{222} 

THE WHITE WATCH-TOWER 

CHAOS and ancient night have engulfed me; I am blind. I crouch on the tower of uttermost silence awaiting the coming of the armies of the dawn. 
O whence do I come, where am I, O whither do I go? For I sit maddened by the terrors of a great darkness. ... What do I hear? Words of mystery float around me, a music of voices, a sweetness, as of the scent of far burning incense; yea! I see, I hear, I am caught up on the wings of song. Yet I doubt, and doubt that I doubt ... I behold! 

See! the night heaves as a woman great with child, and the surface of the black waters shimmers as the quivering skin of one in the agony of travail. ... The horizon is cleft and glows like a womb of fire, the hosts of the night are scattered, I am born, and the stars melt like flakes of snow before mine eyes. ... 

Lo! there she stands, born in maturity, shaken from out the loins of the darkness, as a rainbow from the purple jars of the thunder. Her hair is as a flood of dancing moon- beams, woven with golden ears of corn, and caught up by flashing serpents of malachite and emerald. On her forehead shines the crescent moon, pearl-like, and softly gleaming with the light of an inner light. Her garment is as a web of translucent {223} silver, glistening white and dew-like, now rippling with all the colours of the rainbow, now rushing into flames crimson and gold, as the petals of the red-rose, woven with poppy, and crocus, and tulips. And around her, as a cloud of irradiant mystery gleaming with darkness, and partly obscuring the softness of her form, sweeps a robe, woven of a network of misty waters, and flashing with a myriad stars of silver; and in its midst, as a great pearl of fire drawn from the depths of the seas, a full moon of silver trembles glowing with beams of opalescent light --- mystic and wonderful. In her right hand she holds a sistrum, and chimes forth the music of the earth, and in her left an asp twisted to the prow of a boat of gold, wherein lie the mysteries of heaven. 

Then clear and sweet as the breath of the hillside, I heard a voice, as of the winds across a silver harp, saying: 

I am the Queen of the heavenly ones, of the Gods, and of the Goddesses, united in one form. I am She who was, who is, and will be; my form is one, my name is manifold; under the palm-trees, and in the deserts, in the valleys, and on the snowy mountains, mankind pays me homage, and thunders forth praises to my name. Yet I am nameless in the deep, as amongst the lightsome mountains of the sky. Some call me Mother of the Gods, some Aphrodite of the seas of pearl, some Diana of the golden nets, some Proserpina Queen of Darkness, some Hecate mistress of enchantments, some Istar of the boat of night, some Miriam of the Cavern, and others yet again Isis, veiled mother of Mystery. 

I am she who cometh in unto all men, and if not here, then shalt thou behold Me amidst the darkness of Acheron, and as Queen in the palaces of Styx. I am the dark night {224} that bringeth forth the bright day; I am the bright day that swalloweth up the dark night; that bright day that hath been begotten by the ages, and conceived in the hearts of men; that dawn in which storms shall cease their roaring, and the billows of the deep shall be smoothed out like a sheet of molten glass. 

Then I was carried away on the wings of rapture, and in the strength of my joy I leapt from the tower of Night; but as I fell, she caught me, and I clung to her and she became as a Daughter of this world, as a Child of God begotten in the heart of man. And her hair swept around and about me, in clouds of gold, and rolled over me, as sunbeams poured out from the cups of the noon. Her cheeks were bright with a soft vermilion of the pomegranate mingling with the whiteness of the lily. Her lips were half open, and her eyes were deep, passionate, and tremulous, as the eyes of the mother of the human race, when she first struggled in the strong arms of man; for I was growing strong in her strength, I was becoming a worthy partner of her glory. 

Then she clung to me, and her breath left her lips like gusts of fire mingled with the odours of myrtle; and in mine arms she sang unto me her bridal song: 

"Come, O my dear one, my darling, let us pass from the land of the plough to the glades and the groves of delight! There let us pluck down the clustered vine of our trembling, and scatter the rose-leaves of our desire, and trample the purple grapes of our passion, and mingle the foaming cups of our joy in the glittering chalice of our love. O! love, what fountains of rapture, what springs of intoxicating bliss well up from the depths of our being, till the foaming wine jets {225} forth hissing through the flames of our passion --- and splashes into immensity, begetting a million suns. 

"I have watched the dawn, golden and crimson; I have watched the night all starry-eyed; I have drunk up the blue depths of the waters, as the purple juice of the grape. Yet, alone in thine eyes, do I find the delights of my joy, and in thy lips the vintage of my love. 

"The flowers of the fields have I gazed on, and the gay plumage of the birds, and the distant blue of the mountains; but they all fade before the blush of thy cheeks; and as the ruby goblet of the Sun is drained by the silver lips of night, so are they all swallowed up in the excess of thy beauty. 

"I have breathed in the odour of roses and the fragrance of myrtle, and the sweet scent of the wild jessamine. I have drunk in the breath of the hillside, and the perfume of the woods and the seas; yet thy breath is more fragrant than they, it is sweeter still, it intoxicateth me and filleth me with joy, as a rich jar of wine found in the depths of a desert of salt --- I have drunk deep and am bewildered with love. 

"I have listened to the lark in the sky, to the curlew, and to the nightingale in the thicket, and to all the warblers of the woods, to the murmur of the waters and to the singing of the winds; yet what are they to the rapture of thy voice? which echoes in the valley of my breast, and trills through the depths of my being. 

"I have tasted the juice of the peach, and the sweetness of honey and milk; but the wine of thy lips is strong as the aromatic vintage of Egypt, and sweet as the juice of the date-palms in the scented plains of Euphrates: Ay! let me drink {226} till I reel bewildered with kisses and pleasure ... O my love! ... my love! ... O my love!" 

Then I caught up her song and cried: "Yea! O Queen of the Night, O arrow of brightness drawn from the quiver of the moon! O Thou who hast ensnared me in the meshes of thine hair, and caught me up on the kisses of thy mouth; O thou who hast laid aside thy divinity to take refuge in mine arms, listen! 

"I have drunk deep of the flagons of passion with the white-veiled virgins of Vesta, and the crimson-girdled daughters of Circe, and the drowsy-eyed maidens of Ind. I have woven love with the lithe girls of Hellas, and the subtle-limbed women of Egypt whose fingers are created to caress; all the virgins of Assyria, and the veiled beauties of Arabia, have been mine; yet amongst them all have I not found one to compare to a lash on the lid of thine eye. O Thou art as the wine of ecstasy, a thousand times more delicious than all these. Ah! but what is this languor which cleaves to me? My strength has left me; my soul has mingled with thine; I am not, and yet I am. Is it Thy weakness that I feel?" 

"Nay, O lover, for it is only at the price of the illusion of my strength that thou hast given me the pleasure of unity which I have tasted in thine arms. Beauty has conquered me and drunk up the strength of my might; I am alone, and all things are mine in the mystery of my loneliness. 

"Evoe!" life burns in the brasier of love as a ruby flame in a sapphire bowl. I am dead, yet I live for ever!" 

Arise, O sleeper, for the night of loneliness hath rolled up the hangings of her couch, and my heart is burning like a sun of molten brass; awake before the Beast riseth and enter the {227} sanctuary of Eden and defile the children of dawn. Thou Child-Man, cast off the cloak of dreams who before thy sleep wast enraptured with the strength of love. Fair and fresh didst thou come from the woods when the world was young, with breast like the snowy hills in the sunlight, and thine hair as a wind-ravished forest of oak, and thine eyes deep and still as the lakes of the mountains. No veil covered thee, and thou didst revel naked in the laughter of the Dawn, and under the kisses of mid-day didst thou leap with the sun, and the caressing hands of night laid thee to rest in the cradle of the moon. Thoughts did not tempt thee, Reason played not the prude with thee, nor imagination the wanton. Radiant child that thou art, thou didst grow in the light that shone from thine eyes, no shadow of darkness fell across thy path: thy love was strong and pure --- bright as the stars of night, and deep as the echoing depths of hills of amber, and emerald, and vermilion. 

Awake! tear from thy limbs the hempen ropes of darkness, arise! --- fire the beacon of the awakenment of the nations, and night shall heave as an harlot great with child, and purity shall be born of corruption, and the light shall quiver through the darkness, an effulgence of opals like the beams of many colours irradiated from the L. V. X. 

Through the night of reckoning hast thou passed,and thy path hath been wound around the land of darkness under the clouds of sleep. Thou hast cleft the horizon as a babe the womb of its mother, and scattered the gloom of night, and shouted in thy joy: "Let there be light!" Now that thou has seized the throne, thou shalt pass the portals of the tomb and enter the Temple beyond. {228} 

There thou shalt stand upon the great watch-tower of Day, where all is awakenment, and gaze forth on the kingdom of the vine and the land of the houses of coolness. Thou shalt conquer the Empire of the Sceptre, and usurp the Kingdom of the Crown, for thou art as a little child, and none shall harm thee, no evil form shall spring up against thee. For Yesterday is in thy right hand, and To-morrow in thy left, and To-day is as the breath of thy lips. ........ 

I am the Unveiled One standing between the two horizons, as the sun between the arms of Day and Night. My light shineth upon all men, and none can do me harm, neither can the sway of my rule be broken. I am the Unveiled one and the Unveiler and the Re-veiler; the world lieth below me and before me, and in the brilliance of mine eyes crouch the images of things that be. Space I unroll as a scroll, and Time chimeth from mine hand as the voice of a silver bell. I ring out the birth and the death of nations, and when I rise worlds pass away as feathers of smoke before the hurricane. ..... 

Yet, O divine Youth who has created thyself! What art thou? Thou art the birthless and the deathless one, without beginning and without end! Thou paintest the heavens bright with rays of pure emerald light, for thou art Lord of the beams of Light. Thou illuminest the two lands with rays of turquoise and beryl, and sapphire, and amethyst; for Lord of Love, Lord of Life, Lord of Immensity, Lord of Everlastingness is thy name. Thou hast become as a tower of Effulgence, whose foundations are set in the hearts of me, yea! as a mountain of chrysoleth slumbering in the Crown of Glory! whose summit is God! 

{229} 

[Book II "The Scaffolding" will appear in No. 2.] 

{230}

CHAPTER I

Top

AT last the matter comes back into my mind.

It is now five years since I discovered my stele at Bulak, but now until I obtained certain initiation in the city of Benares last year did the memory of my life in the Twenty-Sixth Dynasty when I was prince and priest in Thebai begin to return. even now much is obscure; but I am commanded to write, so that in writing the full memory may be recovered. For without the perfect knowledge and understanding of that strange life by Nilus I cannot fully know and understand this later life, or find that Tomb which I am appointed to find, and do that therein which must be done.

There fore with faith and confidence do I who was -- in a certain mystical sense -- the Priest of the Princes, Ankh-f-na-khonsu, child of Ta-nech, the holy and mighty one, and of Bes-na-Maut, priestess of the Starry One, set myself to tell myself the strange things that befell me in that life.

Thus.

At my birth Aphruimis in the sign of the Lion was ascending, and in it that strange hidden planet that presides over darkness and magic and forbidden love. The sun was united with the planet of Amoun, but in the Abyss, as showing that my power and glory should be secret, and in Aterechinis the second decanate of the House of Mast, so that my passion and pleasure should likewise be unprofance. In the House of Travel in the Sign of the Ram was the Moon my sweet lady. And the wise men interpreted this as a token that I should travel afar; it might be to the great temple at the source of mother Nile; it might be ...

Foolishness! I have scarce stirred from Thebai.

Yet Have I explored strange countries that they knew not of: and of this also will I tell in due course.

I remember -- as I never could while I lived in Khemi-land -- all the minute care of my birth. For my mother was of the oldest house in Thebes, her blood not only royal, but mixed with the divine. Fifty virgins in their silver tissue stood about her shaking their sistrons, as if the laughter of the Gods echoed the cries of the woman. By the bed stood the Priest of Horus with his heavy staff, the Phoenix for its head, the prong for its foot. Watchful he stood lest Sebek should rise from the abyss.

On the roof of the palace watched the three chief astrologers of Pharaoh with their instruments, and four armed men from the corners of the tower announced each god as it rose. So these three men ached and sweated at their task; for they had become most anxious. All day my birth had been expected; but as Toum drew to His setting their faces grew paler than the sky; for there was one dread moment in the night which all their art had failed to judge. The gods that watched over it were veiled.

But it seemed unlikely that Fate would so decide; yet so they feared that they sent down to the priest of Thoth to say that he must at all costs avoid the threatening moment, even if the lives of mother and child should pay for it; and still the watchmen cried the hour. Now, now! cried the oldest of the astrologers as the moment grew near -- now! Below in answer the priest of Thoth summoned all his skill.

When lo! a rumbling of the abyss. The palace reeled and fell; Typhon rose mighty in destruction, striding across the skies. The world rocked with earthquake; every star broke from its fastening and trembled.

And in the midst lo! Bes-na-Maut my mother; and in her arms myself, laughing in the midst of all that ruin. Yet not one living creature took the slightest hurt! But the astrologers rent their robes and beat their faces on the ground; for the dread moment, the Unknown Terror, had gone by; and with it I had come to light.

In their terror, indeed, as I learnt long after, they sent messengers to the oldest and wisest of the priests; the High-priest of Nuit, who lived at the bottom of a very deep well, so that his eyes, even by day, should remain fixed upon the stars.

But he answered them that since they had done all that they could, and Fate had reversed their design, it was evident that the matter saw in the hands of Fate, and that the less they meddled the better it would be for them. For he was a brusque old man -- how afterwards I met him shall be written in its place.

So then I was to be brought up as befitted one in my station, half-prince, half-priest. I was to follow my father, hold his wand and ankh, assume his throne.

And now I begin to recall some details of my preparation for that high and holy task.

Memory is strangely fragmentary and strangely vivid. I remember how, when I had completed my fourth month, the priests took me and wrapped me in a panther's skin, whose flaming gold and jet-black spots were like the sun. They carried me to the river bank where the holy crocodiles were basking; and there they laid me. But when they left me they refrained from the usual enchauntment against the evil spirit of the crocodile; and so for three days I lay without protection. Only at certain hours did my mother descend to feed me; and she too was silent, being dressed as a princess only, without the sacred badges of her office.

Also in the sixth month they exposed me to the Sun in the desert where was no shade or clothing; and in the seventh month they laid me in a bed with a sorceress, that fed on the blood of young children, and, having been in prison for a long time, was bitterly an-hungered; and in the eighth month they gave me the aspic of Nile, and the royal Uraeus serpent, and the deadly snake of the south country, for playmates; but I passed scatheless through all these trials.

And in the ninth month I was weaned, and my mother bade me farewell, for never again might she look upon my face, save in the secret rites of the Gods, when we should meet otherwise than as babe and mother, in the garment of that Second Birth which we of Khemi knew.

The next six years of my life have utterly faded. All that I can recall is the vision of the greatness of our city of Thebai, and the severity of my life. For I lived on the back of a horse, even eating and drinking as I rode; for so it becometh a prince. Also I was trained to lay about me with a sword, and in the use of the bow and the spear. For it was said that Horus -- or Men Tu, as we called him in Thebai -- was my Father and my God. I shall speak late of that strange story of my begetting.

At the end of seven years, however, so great and strong had I waxen that my father took me to the old astrologer that dwelt in the well to consult him. This I remember as if it were but yesterday. The journey down the great river with its slow days! The creaking benches and the sweat of the slaves are still in my ears and my nostrils. Then swift moments of flying foam in some rapid or cataract. The great temples that we passed; the solitary Ibis of Thoth that meditated on the shore; the crimson flights of birds; -- but nothing that we saw upon the journey was like unto the end thereof. For in a desolate place was the Well, with but a small temple beside it, where the servants -- they too most holy! of that holy ancient man might dwell.

And my father brought me to the mouth of the well and called thrice upon the name of Nuit. Then came a voice climbing and coiling up the walls like a serpent, "Let this child become priestess of the Veiled One!"

Now my father was wise enough to know that the old man never made a mis- take; it was only a question of a right interpretation of the oracle. Yet he was sorely puzzled and distressed, for that I was a boy child. so at the risk of his life -- for the old man was brusque! -- he called again and said "Behold my son!"

But as he spoke a shaft of sunlight smote him on the nape of the neck as he bend over the well; and his face blackened, and his blood gushed forth from his mouth. And the old man lapped up the blood of my father with his tongue, and cried gleefully to his servants to carry me to a house of the Veiled One, there to be trained in my new life.

so there came forth from the little house an eunuch and a young woman exceeding fair; and the eunuch saddled two horses, and we rode into the desert alone.

Now though I could ride like a man, they suffered me not; but the young priestess bore me in her arms. And though I ate meat like a warrior, they suffered me not, but the young priestess fed me at her breast.

And they took from me the armour of gilded bronze that my father had made for me, scales like a crocodile's sewn upon crocodile skin that cunning men had cured with salt and spices; but they wrapped me in soft green silk.

So strangely we came to a little house in the desert, and that which befell me there is not given me of the gods at this time to tell; but I will sleep; and in the morning by their favour the memory thereof shall arise in me, even in me across these thousands of years of the whirling of the earth in her course.

CHAPTER II

Top

SO for many years I grew sleek and subtle in my womans attire. And the old eunuch (who was very wise) instructed me in the Art of Magic and in the worship of the Veiled One, whose priestess was I destined.

I remember now many things concerning those strange rituals, things too sacred to write. But I will tell of an adventure that I had when I was nine years of age.

In one of the sacred books it is written that the secret of that subtle draught which giveth vision of the star-abodes of Duant, whose sight is life eternal in freedom and pleasure among the living, lieth in the use of a certain little secret bone that is in the Bear of Syria. Yet how should I a child slay such an one? For they had taken all weapons from me.

But in a garden of the city (for we had now returned unto a house in the suburbs of Thebai) was a colony of bears kept by a great lord for his pleasure. And I by my cunning enticed a young bear-cub from its dam, and slew it with a great stone. Then I tore off its skin and hid myself therein, taking also its jaw and sharpening the same upon my stone. Then at last the old she-bear came searching me, and as she put down her nose to smell at me, taking me for her cub, I drove my sharpened bone into her throat.

I struck with great fortune; for she coughed once, and died.

Then I took her skin with great labour; and (for it was now night) began to return to my house. But I was utterly weary and I could no longer climb the wall. Yet I stayed awake all that night, sharpening again upon my stone the jaw-bone of that bear-cub; and this time I bound it to a bough that I tore off from a certain tree that grew in the garden.

Now towards the morning I fell asleep, wrapped in the skin of the old she- bear. And the great bear himself, the lord of the garden, saw me, and took me for his mate, and came to take his pleasure of me. Then I being roused out of sleep struck at his heart with all my strength as he rose over me, and quitting my shelter ran among the trees. For I struck not home, or struck aslant. And the old bear, sore wounded, tore up the skin of his mate; and then, discovering the cheat, came after me.

But by good fortune I found and wedged myself into a narrow pylon, too deep for him to reach me, though I could not go through, for the door was closed upon me. And in the angle of the door was an old sword disused. This was too heavy for me to wield with ease; yet I lifted it, an struck feebly at the claws of he bear. So much I wounded him that in his pain he dropped and withdrew and began to lick his paws. Thus he forgot about me; and I, growing bolder, ran out upon him. He opened his mouth; but before he could rise, I thrust the sword down it. He tossed his head; and I, clinging to the sword- hilt, was thrown into the air, and fell heavily upon my shoulder. My head too struck the ground; and I lay stunned.

When I came to myself it was that a party of men and women had thrown water in my face and uttered the spells that revive from swoon. Beside me, close beside me, lay mine enemy dead; and I, not forgetful of my quest, took the blade of the sword (for it was snapt) and cut off the secret parts of the bear and took the little bone thereof; and would have gone forth with my prize. but the great lord of the house spake with me; and all his friends made as if to mock at me. But the women would not have it; they came round me and petted and caressed me; so that angry words were spoken.

But even as they quarrelled among themselves, my guardian, the old eunuch, appeared among them; for he had traced me to the garden.

And when they beheld the ring of the holy ancient man the astrologer they trembled; and the lord of the house threw a chain of gold around my neck, while his lady gave me her own silken scarf, broidered with the loves of Isis and Nephthys, and of Apis and Hathor. Nor did any dare to take from me the little bone that I had won so dearly; and with it I made the spell of the Elixir, and beheld the starry abodes ofDuant, even as it was written in the old wise book.

But my guardians were ashamed and perplexed; for though I was so sleek and subtle, yet my manhood already glowed in such deeds as this -- how should I truly become the priestess of the Veiled One?

Therefore they kept me closer and nursed me with luxury and flattery. I had two negro slave-boys that fanned me and that fed me; I had an harp-player from the great city of Memphis, that played languorous tunes. But in my mischief I would constantly excite him to thoughts of war and of love; and his music would grow violent and loud, so that the old eunuch, rushing in, would belabour him with his staff.

How well I recall that room! Large was it and lofty; and there were sculptured pillars of malachite and lapis-lazuli and of porphyry and yellow marble. The floor was of black granite; the roof of white marble. On the Southern side was my couch, a softness of exotic furs. To roll in them was to gasp for pleasure. in the centre was a tiny fountain of pure gold. The sunlight came through the space between the walls and the roof, while on the other sides I could look through and up into the infinite blue.

There was a great python that inhabited the hall; but he was very old, and too wise to stir. But -- so I then believed -- he watched me and conveyed intelligence to the old magus of the well.

Now then the folly of my guardians appeared in this; that while all day I slept and languished and played idly, at night while they supposed I slept, I slept not. But I rose and gave myself to the most violent exercises. First, I would go into my bathing-pool and hold my breath beneath the water while I invoked the goddess Auramoth one hundred times. Next, I would walk on my hands around the room; I even succeeded in hopping on one hand. Next, I would climb each of the twenty-four smooth pillars. next, I would practise the seventy-two athletic postures. Also in many other ways I would strive to make my strength exceeding great; and all this I kept most secret from my guardians.

At last on one night I resolved to try my strength; so, pushing aside the curtain, I passed into the corridor. Springing upon the soldier that guarded me, I brought him to the ground; and with my right hand under his chin, my left on his right shoulder, and my knee at the nape of his neck, I tore his head from his body before he could utter a cry.

I was now in my fifteenth year; but the deed was marvelous. None suspected me; it was thought a miracle.

The old eunuch, distressed, went to consult the magus of the well; whose answer was; "Let the vows of the priestess be taken!"

Now I thought this old man most foolish-obstinate; for I myself was obstinate and foolish. Not yet did I at all understand his wisdom or his purpose.

It often happens thus. Of old., men sent their priests to rebuke Nile for rising -- until it was known that his rising was the cause of the fertility of their fields.

Now of the vows which I took upon me and of my service as priestess of the Veiled One it shall next be related.

CHAPTER III

Top

IT was the Equinox of Spring, and all my life stirred in me. They led me down cool colonnades of mighty stone clad in robes of white broidered with silver, and veiled with a veil of fine gold web fastened with rubies. They gave me not the Uraeus crown, nor any nemyss, nor the Ateph crown, but bound my forehead with a simple fillet of green leaves -- vervain and mandrake and certain deadly herbs of which it is not fitting to speak.

Now the priests of the Veiled One were sore perplexed, for that never before had any boy been chosen priestess. For before the vows may be administered, the proofs of virginity are sought; and, as it seemed, this part of the ritual must be suppressed or glossed over. Then said the High Priest: "Let it be that we examine the first woman that he shall touch with his hand, and she shall suffice." Now when I heard this, I thought to test the God; and, spying in the crowd, I beheld in loose robes with flushed face and wanton eyes, a certain courtesan well-known in the city, and I touched her. Then those of the priests that hated me were glad, for they wished to reject me; and taking aside into the hall of trial that woman, made the enquiry. Then with robes rent they came running forth, crying out against the Veiled One; for they found her perfect in virginity, and so was she even unto her death, as latter appeared.

But the Veiled One was wroth with them because of this, and appeared in her glittering veil upon the steps of her temple. There she stood, and called them one by one; and she lifted but the eye-piece of her veil and looked into their eyes; and dead they fell before her as if smitten of the lightning.

But those priests who were friendly to me and loyal to the goddess took that virgin courtesan, and led her in triumph through the city, veiled and crowned as is befitting. Now after some days he that guarded the sacred goat of Khem died, and they appointed her in his place. And she was the first woman that was thus honoured since the days of the Evil Queen in the Eighteenth Dynasty, of her that wearied of men at an age when other women have not known them, that gave herself to gods and beasts.

But now they took me to the pool of liquid silver -- or so they called it; I suppose it was quicksilver; for I remember that it was very difficult to immerse me -- which is beneath the feet of the Veiled One. For this is the secret of the Oracle. Standing afar off the priest beholds the reflection of her in the mirror, seeing her lips that move under the veil; and this he interprets to the seeker after truth.

Thus the priest reads wrongly the silence of the Goddess, and the seeker understands ill the speech of the priest. Then come forth fools, saying "The Goddess hath lied" -- and in their folly they die.

While, therefore, they held me beneath the surface of the pool, the High Priestess took the vows on my behalf saying:

I swear by the orb of the Moon;
I swear by the circuit of the Stars;
I swear but the Veil, and by the Face behind the Veil;
I swear by the Light Invisible, and by the Visible Darkness; On behalf of this Virgin that is buried in thy water;
To live in purity and service;
To love in beauty and truth;
To guard the Veil from the profane;
To die before the Veil; ...

-- and then came the awful penalty of failure.

I dare not recall half of it; yet in it were these words: Let her be torn by the Phallus of Set, and let her bowels be devoured by Apep; let her be prostituted to the lust of Besz, and let her face be eaten by the god ----.

It is not good to write His name.

Then they loosed me, and I lay smiling in the pool. They lifted me up and brought me to the feet of the goddess, so that I might kiss them. And as I kissed them such a thrill ran through me that I thought myself rapt away into the heaven of Amoun, or even as Asi when Hoor and Hoor-pa-kraat, cleaving her womb, sprang armed to life. Then they stripped me of my robes, and lashed me with fine twigs of virgin hazel, until my blood ran from me into the pool;. But the surface of the silver swallowed up the blood by some mysterious energy; and they took this to be a sign of acceptance. So then they clothed me in the right robes of a priestess of the Veiled One; and they put a silver sistron in my hand, and bade me perform the ceremony of adoration. This I did, and the veil of the goddess glittered in the darkness -- for night had fallen by this -- with a strange starry light.

Thereby it was known that I was indeed chosen aright. so last of all they took me to the banqueting-house and set me on the high throne. One by one the priests came by and kissed my lips: one by one the priestesses came by, and gave me the secret clasp of hands that hath hidden virtue. And the banquet waxed merry; for all the food was magically prepared. Every beast that they slew was virgin; every plant that they plucked had been grown and tended by virgins in the gardens of the temple. also the wine was spring water only, but so consecrated by the holy priestesses that one glass was more intoxicating that a whole skin of common wine. Yet this intoxication was a pure delight, an enthusiasm wholly divine; and it gave strength, and did away with sleep, and left no sorrow.

Last, as the first gray glow of Hormakhu paled the deep indigo of the night, they crowned and clothed me with white lotus flowers, and took me joyously back into the temple, there to celebrate the matin ritual of awakening the Veiled One.

Thus, and not otherwise, I became priestess of that holy goddess, and for a little while my life passed calm as the unruffled mirror itself.

It was from the Veiled One herself that came the Breath of Change.

On this wise.

In the Seventh Equinox after my initiation into her mystery the High Priestess was found to fail; at her invocation the Veil no longer glittered as was its wont. For this they deemed her impure, and resorted to many ceremonies, but without avail. At last in despair she went to the temple of Set, and gave herself as a victim to that dreadful god. Now all men were much disturbed at this, and it was not known at all of them what they should do. Now it must be remembered that the ceremonies are always performed by a single priestess alone before the goddess, save only at the Initiations. the others also had found themselves rejected of her; and when they learnt of the terrible end of the High Priestess, they became fearful. some few, indeed, concealed their failure from the priests; but always within a day and a night they were found torn asunder in the outer courts; so that it seemed the lesser evil to speak truth.

Moreover, the affair had become a public scandal; for the goddess plagued the people with famine and with a terrible and foul disease.

But as for me, I wot not what to do; for to me always the Veil glittered, and that brighter than the ordinary. Yet I said nothing, but went about drooping and sorrowful, as if I were as unfortunate as they. For I would not seem to boast of the favour of the goddess.

Then they sent to he old Magus in the well; and he laughed outright at their beards, and would say no word. Also they sent to the sacred goat of Khem, and his priestess would but answer, "I, and such as I, may be favoured of Her," which they took for ribaldry and mocking. A third time they sent to the temple of Thoth the Ibis god of wisdom. And Thoth answered them by this riddle: "On how many legs doth mine Ibis sand?"

And they understood him not.

But the old High priest determined to solve the mystery, though he paid forfeit with his life. so concealing himself in the temple, he watched in the pool for the reflection of the glittering of the Veil, while one by one we performed the adorations. And behind him and without stood the priests, watching for him to make a sing. This we knew not; but when it fell to me (the last) to adore that Veiled One, behold! the Veil glittered, and the old Priest threw up his arms to signal that which had occurred. And the flash of the eye pierced the Veil, and he fell from his place dead upon the priests without.

They buried him with much honour, for that he had given his life for the people and for the temple, to bring back the favour of the Veiled One. Then came they all very humbly unto me the child, and besought me to interpret the will of the Goddess. And her will was that I alone should serve her day and night.

Then they gave me to drink of the Cup of the torment; and this is its virtue, that if one should speak falsely, invoking the name of the goddess, he shall burn in hell visibly before all men for a thousand years; and that flame shall never be put out. There is such an one in her temple in Memphis, for I saw it with these eyes. There he burns and writhes and shrieks on the cold marble floor; and there he shall burn till his time expire, and he sink to that more dreadful hell below the West. But I drank thereof, and the celestial dew stood shining on my skin, and a coolness ineffable thrilled through me; whereat they all rejoiced, and obeyed the voice of the Goddess that I had declared unto them.

Now then was I alway alone with that Veiled One, and I must enter most fully into that secret period of my life. For, despite its ending, which hath put many wise men to shame, it was to me even as an eternity of rapture, of striving and of attainment beyond that which most mortals -- and they initiates even! -- call divine.

Now first let it be understood what is the ritual of adoration of our Lady the Veiled One.

First, the priestess performs a mystical dance, by which all beings whatso- ever, be they dogs or demons, are banished, so that the place may be pure. Next, in another dance, even more secret and sublime, the presence of the goddess is invoked into her Image. Next, the priestess goes a certain journey, passing the shrines of many great and terrible of the Lords of Khem, and saluting them. Last, she assumes the very self of the Goddess; and if this be duly done, the Veil glittereth responsive.

Therefore, if the Veil glittereth not, one may know that in some way the priestess hath failed to identify herself with Her. Thus an impurity in the thought of the priestess must cause her to fail; for the goddess is utterly pure.

Yet the task is alway difficult; for with the other gods one knoweth the appearance of their images; and steadily contemplating these one can easily attain to their imitation, and so to their comprehension, and to unity of consciousness with them. But with Our Veiled One, none who hath seen her face hath lived long enough to say one word, or call one cry.

So then it was of vital urgency to me to keep in perfect sympathy with that pure soul, so calm, so strong. With what terror then did I regard myself when, looking into my own soul, I saw no longer that perfect stillness. Strange was it, even as if one should see a lake stirred by a wind that one did not feel upon the cheeks and brow!

Trembling and ashamed, I went to the vesper adoration. I knew myself troubled, irritated, by I knew not what. And in spite of all my efforts, this persisted even to the supreme moment of my assumption of her godhead.

And the? Oh but the Veil glittered as never yet; yea more! it shot out sparks of scintillant fire, silvery rose, a shower of flame and of perfume.

Then was I exceedingly amazed because of this, and made a Vigil before her all the night, seeking a Word. And that word came not.

Now of what further befell I will write anon.

CHAPTER IV

Top

SO it came to pass that I no longer went out at all from the presence of the goddess, save only to eat and to sleep. And the favour of her was restored to the people, so that all men were glad thereof.

For if any man murmured, he was slain incontinent, the people being mindful of the famine and the disease, and being minded to have no more of such, if it could by any means be avoided. They were therefore exceeding punctual with their gifts.

But I was daily more afraid, being in a great sweat of passion, of which I dared to speak to no man. Nor did I dare to speak even privily in mine own heart thereof, lest I should discover its nature. But I sent my favourite, the virgin Istarah (slim, pallid, and trembling as a young lotus in the West Wind), with my ring of office, to enquire of the old Magus of the well.

And he answered her by pointing upward to the sky and then downward to the earth. And I read this Oracle as if ti were spoken "As above, so beneath." This came to me as I had flung myself in despair at the feet of my Lady, covering them with my tears; for by a certain manifest token I now knew that I had done a thing that was so dreadful that even now -- these many thousand years hence -- I dare hardly write it.

I loved the Veiled One.

Yea, wit the fierce passion of a beast, of a man, of a god, with my whole soul I loved her.

Even as I knew this by the manifest token the Veil burst into a devouring flame; it ate up the robes of my office, lapping them with its tongues of fire like a tigress lapping blood; yet withal it burnt me not, nor singed one hair.

Thus naked I fled away in fear, and in my madness slipped and fell into the pool of liquid silver, splashing it all over the hall; and even as I fled that rosy cataract of flame that wrapt me (from the Veil as it jetted) went out -- went out ----

The Veil was a dull web of gold, no more.

Then I crept fearfully to the feet of the goddess, and with my tears and kisses sought to wake her into life once more. But the Veil flamed not again; only a mist gathered about it and filled the temple, and hid all things from my eyes.

Now then came Istarah my favourite back with the ring and the message; and thinking that she brought bad news, I slit her lamb's-throat with the magic sickle, and her asp's-tongue I tore out with my hands, and threw it to the dogs and jackals.

Herein I erred sorely, for her news was good. Having reflected thereon, I perceived its import.

For since the Veil flamed always at my assumption, it was sure that I was in sympathy with that holy Veiled One.

If I were troubled, and knew not why; if my long peace were stirred -- why then, so She!

"As above, so beneath!" For even as I, being man, sought to grasp godhead and crush it in my arms, so She, the pure essence, sought to manifest in form by love.

Yet I dared not repeat the ceremony at midnight.

Instead I lay prone, my arms outstretched in shame and pain, on the steps at her feet.

And lo! the Veil flamed. Then I knew that She too blamed Herself alike for her ardour and for her abstinence. Thus seven days I lay, never stirring; and all that time the Veil flamed subtly and softly, a steady bluish glow changing to green as my thought changed from melancholy to desire.

Then on the eight day I rose and left the shrine and clad myself in new robes, in robes of scarlet and gold, with a crown of vine and bay and laurel and cypress. Also I purified myself and proclaimed a banquet. And I made the priests and the citizens, exceeding drunken. Then I called the guard, and purged thoroughly the whole temple of all of them, charging the captain on his life to let no man pass within. So that I should be absolutely alone in the whole precincts of the temple.

Then like an old gray wolf I wandered round the outer court, lifting up my voice in a mournful howl. And an ululation as of one hundred thousand wolves answered me, yet deep and muffled, as though it came from the very bowels of the earth.

Then at the hour of midnight I entered again the shrine and performed the ritual.

As I went on I became inflamed with an infinite lust for the Infinite; and now I let it leap unchecked, a very lion. Even so the Veil glowed red as with some infernal fire. Now then I am come to the moment of the Assumption; but instead of sitting calm and cold, remote, aloof, I gather myself together, and spring madly at the Veil, catching it in my two hands. Now the Veil was of woven gold, three thousand twisted wires; a span thick! Yet I put out my whole force to tear it across; and (for she also put out her force) it rent with a roar as of earthquake. Blinded I was with the glory of her face; I should have fallen; but she caught me to her, and fixed her divine mouth on mine, eating me up wit the light of her eyes. her mouth moaned, her throat sobbed with love; her tongue thrust itself into me as a shaft of sunlight smites into the palm-groves; my robes fell shrivelled, and flesh to flesh we clung. Then in some strange way she gripped me body and soul, twining herself about me and within me even as Death that devoureth mortal man.

Still, still my being increased; my consciousness expanded until I was all Nature seen as one, felt as one, apprehended as one, formed by me, part of me, apart from me -- all these things at one moment -- and at the same time the ecstasy of love grew colossal, a tower to scale the stars, a sea to drown the sun ...

I cannot write of this ... but in the streets people gathered apples of gold that dropped from invisible boughs, and invisible porters poured out wine for all, strange wine that healed disease and old age, wine that, poured between the teeth of the dead (so long as the embalmer had not begun his work), brought them back from the dark kingdom to perfect health and youth.

As for me, I lay as one dead in the arms of the holy Veiled One -- Veiled no more! -- while she took her pleasure of me ten times, a thousand times. In that whirlwind of passion all my strength was as a straw in the simoom.

Yet I grew not weaker but stronger. Though my ribs cracked, I held firm. Presently indeed I stirred; it seemed as if her strength had come to me. Thus I forced back her head and thrust myself upon and into her even as a comet that impales the sun upon its horn! And my breath came fast between my lips and hers; her moan now faint, like a dying child, no more like a wild beast in torment.

Even so, wild with the lust of conquest, I urged myself upon her and fought against her. I stretched out her arms and forced them to the ground; then I crossed them on her breast, so that she was powerless. And I became like a mighty serpent of flame, and wrapt her, crushed her in my coils.

I was the master! ...

Then grew a vast sound about me as of shouting: I grew conscious of the petty universe, the thing that seems apart from oneself, so long as one is oneself apart from it.

Men cried "The temple is on fire! The temple of Asi the Veiled One is burning! The mighty temple that gave its glory to Thebai is aflame!

Then I loosed my coils and gathered myself together into the form of a mighty hawk of gold and spake on last word to her, a word to raise her from the dead!

But lo! not Asi, but Asar!

White was his garment, starred with red and blue and yellow. Green was his Countenance, and in his hands he bore the crook and scourge. Thus he rose, even as the temple fell about us in ruins, and we were left standing there.

And I wist not what to say.

Now then the people of the city crowded in upon us, and for the most part would have slain me.

But Thoth the mighty God, the wise one, with his Ibis-head, and his nemyss of indigo, with his Ateph crown and his Phoenix wand and with his Ankh of emerald, with his magic apron in the Three colours; yea, Thoth, the God of Wisdom, whose skin is of tawny orange as though it burned in a furnace, appeared visibly to all of us. And the old Magus of the Well, whom no man had seen outside his well for night threescore years, was found in the midst: and he cried with a loud voice, saying:

"The Equinox of the Gods!"

And he went on to explain how it was that Nature should no longer be the centre of man's worship, but Man himself, man in his suffering and death, man in his purification and perfection. And he recited the Formula of the Osiris as follows, even as it hath been transmitted unto us by the Brethren of the Cross and Rose unto this day:

"For Asar Un-nefer hath said:
He that is found perfect before the Gods hath said:
These are the elements of my body, perfected through suffering, glorified through trial.

For the Scent of the dying rose is the repressed sigh of my suffering; The Flame-Red fire is the energy of my undaunted Will; The Cup of Wine is the outpouring of the blood of my heart, sacrificed to regeneration;

And the Bread and Salt are the Foundations of my Body
Which I destroy in order that they may be renewed.
For I am Asar triumphant, even Asar Un-nefer the Justified One!
I am Her who is clothed with the body of flesh,
Yet in Whom is the Spirit of the mighty Gods.
I am he Lord of Life, triumphant over death; he who partaketh with me shall arise with me.
I am the manifestor in Matter of those whose abode is in the Invisible. I am purified: I stand upon the Universe: I am its Reconciler with the eternal Gods: I am the Perfector of Matter; and without me the Universe is not!"

All this he said, and displayed the sacraments of Osiris before them all; and in a certain mystical manner did we all symbolically partake of them. But for me! in the Scent of the dying Rose I beheld rather the perfection of the love of my lady the Veiled One, whom I had won, and slain in the winning!

Now, however, the old Magus clad me (for I was yet naked) in the dress of a Priest of Osiris. He gave me the robes of white Linen, and the leopard's skin, and the wand and ankh. Also he gave me the crook and scourge, and girt me with the royal girdle. On my head he set the holy Uraeus serpent for a crown; and then, turning to the people, cried aloud: "Behold the Priest of Asar in Thebai!

"He shall proclaim unto ye the worship of Asar; see that ye follow him!"

Then, ere one could cry "Hold!" he had vanished from our sight.

I dismissed the people; I was alone with the dead God; with Osiris, the Lord of Amennti, the slain of Typhon, the devoured of Apophis ... Yea, verily, I was alone!

CHAPTER V

Top

NOW then the great exhaustion took hold upon me, and I fell at the feet of the Osiris as one dead. All knowledge of terrestrial things was gone from me; I entered the kingdom of the dead by the gate of the West. For the worship of Osiris is to join the earth to the West; it is the cultus of the Setting Sun. Through Isis man obtains strength of nature; through Osiris he obtains the strength of suffering and ordeal, and as the trained athlete is superior to the savage, so is the magic of Osiris stronger than the magic of Isis. So by my secret practices at night, while my guardians strove to smooth my spirit to a girl's, had I found the power to bring about that tremendous event, an Equinox of the Gods.

Just as thousands of years later was my secret revolt against Osiris -- for the world had suffered long enough! -- destined to bring about another Equinox in which Horus was to replace the Slain One with his youth and vigour and victory.

I passed therefore into these glowing abodes of Amennti, clad in thick darkness, while my body lay entranced at the feet of the Osiris in the ruined temple.

Now the god Osiris sent forth his strange gloom to cover us, lest the people should perceive or disturb; Therefore I lay peacefully entranced, and abode in Amennti. There I confronted the devouring god, and there was my heart weighed and found perfect; there the two-and-forty Judges bade me pass through the pylons they guarded; there I spoke with the Seven, and with the Nine, and with the Thirty-Three; and at the end I came out into the abode of the Holy Hathor, unto her mystical mountain, and being there crowned and garlanded I rejoiced exceedingly, coming out through the gate of the East, the Beautiful gate, unto the Land of Khemi, and the city of Thebai, and the temple that had been the temple of the Veiled One. There I rejoined my body, making the magical links in the prescribed manner, and rose up and did adoration to the Osiris by the fourfold sign. Therefore the Light of Osiris began to dawn; it went about the city whirling forth, abounding, crying aloud; whereat the people worshipped, being abased with exceeding fear. Moreover, they hearkened unto their wise men and brought gifts of gold, so that the temple floor was heaped high; and gifts of oxen, so that the courts of the temple could not contain them: and gifts of slaves, as it were a mighty army.

Then I withdrew myself; and taking counsel with the wisest of the priests and of the architects and of the sculptors, I gave out my orders so that the temple might duly be builded. By the favour of the god all things went smoothly enough; yet was I conscious of some error in the working; or if you will, some weakness in myself and my desire. Look you, I could not forget the Veiled One, my days of silence and solitude with Her, the slow dawn of our splendid passion, the climax of all that wonder in her ruin!

So as the day approached for the consecration of the temple I began to dread some great catastrophe. Yet all went well -- perhaps too well.

The priests and the people knew nothing of this, however. For the god manifested exceptional favour; as a new god must do, or how shall he establish his position? The harvest were fourfold, the cattle eightfold; the women were all fertile -- yea! barren women of sixty years bore twins! -- there was no disease or sorrow in the city.

Mighty was the concourse of the citizens on the great day of the consecra- tion.

Splendid rose the temple, a fortress of black granite. The columns were carved with wonderful images of all the gods adoring Osiris; marvels of painting glittered on the walls; they told the story of Osiris, of his birth, his life, his death at the hands of Typhon, the search after his scattered members, the birth of Horus and Harpocrates, the vengeance upon Typhon Seth, the resurrection of Osiris.

The god himself was seated in a throne set back unto the wall. It was of lapis-lazuli and amber, it was inlaid with emerald and ruby. Mirrors of polished gold, of gold burnished with dried poison of asps, so that the slaves who worked upon it might die. For, it being unlawful for those mirrors to have ever reflected any mortal countenance, the slaves were both blinded and veiled; yet even so, it were best that they should die.

At last the ceremony began. With splendid words, with words that shone lime flames, did I consecrate all that were there present, even the whole city of Thebai.

And I made the salutation unto the attendant gods, very forcibly, so that they responded with echoes of my adoration. And Osiris accepted mine adoration with gladness as I journeyed about at the four quarters of the temple.

Now cometh the mysterious ceremony of Assumption. I took upon myself the form of the god: I strove to put my heart in harmony with his.

Alas! alas! I was in tune with the dead soul of Isis; my heart was as a flame of elemental lust and beauty; I could not -- I could not. Then the heavens lowered and black clouds gathered upon the Firmament of Nu. Dark flames of lightning rent the clouds, giving no light. The thunder roared; the people were afraid. In his dark shrine the Osiris gloomed, displeasure on his forehead, insulted majesty in his eyes. Then a pillar of dust whirled down from the vault of heaven, even unto me as I stood alone, half-defiant, in the midst of the temple while the priests and the people cowered and wailed afar off. It rent the massy roof as it had been a thatch of straw, whirling the blocks of granite far away into the Nile. It descended, roaring and twisting, like a wounded serpent demon-king in his death-agony; it struck me and lifted me from the temple; it bore me through leagues of air into the desert; then it dissolved and flung me contemptuously on a hill of sand. Breathless and dazed I lay, anger and anguish tearing at my heart.

I rose to swear a mighty curse; exhaustion took me, and I fell in a swoon to the earth.

When I came to myself it was nigh dawn. I went to the top of the hillock and looked about me. Nothing but sand, sand all ways. Just so was it within my heart!

The only guide for my steps (as the sun rose) was a greener glimpse in the East, which I thought might be the valley of the Nile reflected. Thither I bent my steps: all day I struggled with the scorching heat, the shifting sand. At night I tried to sleep, for sheer fatigue impelled me. But as often as I lay down, so often restlessness impelled me forward. I would stagger on awhile, then stumble and fall. Only at dawn I slept perhaps for an hour, and woke chilled to death by me own sweat. I was so weak that I could hardly raise a hand; my tongue was swollen, so that I could not greet the sun-disk with the accustomed adoration. My brain had slipped control; I could not longer even think of the proper spells that might have brought me aid. Instead, dreadful shapes drew near; one, a hideous camel-demon, an obscene brute of filth; another, a black ape with a blue muzzle and crimson buttocks, all his skin hairless and scabby, with his mass of mane oiled and trimmed like a beautiful courtesans. This fellow mocked me with the alluring gestures of such an one, and anon voided his excrement upon me. Moreover there were others, menacing and terrible, vast cloudy demon-shapes. ...

I could not think of the words of power that control them.

Now the sun that warmed my chill bones yet scorched me further. My tongue so swelled that I could hardly breathe; my face blackened; my eyes bulged out. The fiends came closer; drew strength from my weakness, made themselves material bodies, twitched me and spiked me and bit me. I turned on them and struck feebly again and again; but they evaded me easily and their yelling laughter rang like bells in my ears. Howbeit I saw that they attacked me only on one side, as if to force me to one path. But I was wise enough to keep my shadow steadily behind me: and they, seeing this, were all the more enraged: I therefore the more obstinate in my course. Then they changed their tactics; and made as if to keep me in the course I had chosen; and seeing this, I was confirmed therein.

Truly with the gods I went! For in a little while I came to a pool of water and a tall palm standing by.

I plunder in that cool wave; my strength came back, albeit slowly; yet with one wave of my hand in the due gesture the fiends all vanished; and in an hour I was sufficiently restored to call forth my friends from the pool -- the little fishes my playmates -- and the nymph of the pool came forth and bowed herself before me and cooked me the fishes with that fire that renders water luminous and sparkling. Also she plucked me dates from the tree, and I ate thereof. Thus was I much comforted; and when I had eaten, she took my head upon her lap, and sang me to sleep; for her voice was like the ripple of the lakes under the wind of spring and like the bubbling of a well and like the tinkling of a fountain through a bed of moss. Also she had deep notes like the sea that booms upon a rocky shore.

So long, long, long I slept.

Now when I awoke the nymph had gone; but I took form my bosom a little casket of certain sacred herbs; and casting a few grains into the pool, repaid her for her courtesy. And I blessed her in the name of our dead lady Isis, and went on in the strength of that delicious meal for a great way. Yet I wist not what to do; for I was as it were a dead man, although my age was barely two and twenty years.

What indeed should befall me?

Yet I went on; and, climbing a ridge, beheld at last the broad Nile, and a shining city that I knew not.

There on the ridge I stood and gave thanks to the great gods of Heaven, the Aeons of infinite years, that I had come thus far. For at the sight of Nilus new life began to dawn in me.

CHAPTER VI

Top

WITHOUT any long delay I descended the slopes and entered the city. Not knowing what might have taken place in Thebai and what news might have come thither, I did not dare declare myself; but seeking out the High Priest of Horus I showed him a certain sign, telling him that I was come from Memphis on a journey, and intended to visit Thebai to pay homage at the shrine of Isis. But he, full of the news, told me that the ancient priestess of Isis, who had become priest of Osiris, had been taken up to heaven as a sign of the signal favour of the God. Where at I could hardly hold myself from laughter; yet I controlled myself and answered that I was not prepared to return to Memphis, for that I was vowed to Isis, and Osiris could not serve my turn.

At this he begged me to stay as his guest, and to go worship at the temple of Isis in this city. I agreed thereto, and the good man gave me new robes and jewels from the treasury of his own temple. There too I rested sweetly on soft cushions fanned by young boys with broad leaves of palm. Also he sent me the dancing girl of Sleep. It was the art of this girl to weave such subtle movements that the sense, watching her, swooned; and as she swayed she sang, ever lower and lower as she moved slower and slower, until the looker-listener was dissolved in bliss of sleep and delicate dream.

Then as he slept she would bend over him even as Nuit the Lady of the Stars that bendeth over the black earth, and in his ears she would whisper strange rhythms, secret utterances, whereby his spirit would be rapt into the realms of Hathor or some other golden goddess, there in one night to reap an harvest of refreshment such as the fields of mortal sleep yield never.

So then I woke at dawn, to find her still watching, still looking into my eyes with a tender smile on her mouth that cooed whispers infinitely soothing. Indeed with a soft kiss she waked me, for in this Art there is aright moment to sleep, and another to waken: which she was well skilled to divine.

I rose then -- she flitted away like a bird -- an robed myself; and, seeking my host, went forth with him to the Temple of Isis.

Now their ritual (it appeared) differed in one point from that to which I was accustomed. Thus, it was not death to intrude upon the ceremony save only for the profane. Priests of a certain rank of initiation might if they pleased behold it. I, therefore, wishing to see again that marvellous glowing of the Veil, disclosed a sufficient sign to the High Priest. Thereat was he mightily amazed; and, from the foot judging Hercules, began to think that I might be some sacred envoy to inspector from the Gods themselves. This I allowed him to think; meanwhile we went forward into the shrines and stood behind the pillars, unseen, in the prescribed position.

Now it chanced that the High Priestess herself had this day chosen to perform the rite.

This was a woman tall and black, most majestic, with limbs strong as a man's. Her gaze was hawk-keen, and her brow commanding. But at the Assumption of the God-form she went close and whispered into the Veil, so low that we could not hear it; but as it seemed with fierce intensity, with some passion that knotted up her muscles, so that her arms writhed like wounded snakes. Also the veins of her forehead swelled, and foam came to her lips. We thought that she had died; her body swelled and shuddered; last of all a terrible cry burst from her throat, inarticulate, awful.

Yet all this while the Veil glittered, though something sombrely. Also the air was filled with a wild sweeping music, which rent our very ears with its uncouth magic. For it was like no music that I had ever heard before. At last the Priestess tore herself away from the Veil and reeled -- as one drunken -- down the temple. Sighs and sobs tore her breast; and her nails made bloody grooves in her wet flanks.

On a sudden she espied me and my companion; with one buffet she smote him to earth -- it is unlawful to resist the Priestess when she is in the Ecstasy of Union -- and falling upon me, like a wild beast she buried her teeth in my neck, bearing me to the ground. Then, loosing me, while the blood streamed from me, she fixed her glittering eyes upon it with strange joy, and with her hands she shook me as a lion shakes a buck. Sinewy were her hands, with big knuckles, and the strength of her was as cords of iron. Yet her might was but a mortal's; in a little she gave one gasp like a drowning man's; beer body slackened, and fell with its dead weight on mine, her mouth glued to mine in one dreadful kiss. Dreadful; for as my mouth returned it, almost mechanically, the blood gushed from her nostrils and blinded me. I too, then, more dead that alive, swooned into bliss, into trance. I was awakened by the High Priest of Horus. "Come," he said; "she is dead." I disengaged myself from all that weight of madness -- and the body writhed convulsively as I turned it over -- I kissed those frothy lips, for in death she was beautiful beyond belief, joyous beyond description -- thence I staggered to the Veil, and saluted with all my strength, so that it glittered under the force of my sheer will. Then I turned me again, and with the High Priest sought his house.

Strange indeed was I as I went through the city, my new robes dark with blood of that most holy sorceress.

But no one of the people dared so much as lift his eyes; nor spoke we together at all. But when we were come into the house of the High Priest, sternly did he confront me.

"What is this, my son?"

And I weary of the folly of the world and of the uselessness of things answered him:

"Father, I go back to Memphis. I am the Magus of the Well."

Now he knew the Magus, and answered me:

"Why liest thou?"

And I said "I am come into the world where all speech is false, and all speech is true."

Then he did me reverence, abasing himself unto the ground even unto nine- and-ninety times.

And I spurned him and said, "Bring forth the dancing girl of Sleep; for in the morning I will away to Memphis."

And she came forth, and I cursed her and cried: "Be thou the dancing girl of Love!"

And it was so. And I went in unto her, and knew her; and in the morning I girded myself, and boarded the state barge of the High Priest, and pillowed myself upon gold and purple, and disported myself with lutes and with lyres and with parrots, and with black salves,and with wine and with delicious fruits, until I came even unto the holy city of Memphis.

And there I called soldiers of Pharaoh, and put cruelly to death all them that had accompanied me; and I burnt the barge, adrift upon the Nile at sunset, so that the flames alarmed the foolish citizens. All this I did, and danced naked in my madness through the city, until I came to the Old Magus of the Well.

And laughing, I threw a stone upon him, crying: "Ree me the riddle of my life!"

And he answered naught.

Then I threw a great rock upon him, and I heard his bones crunch, and I cried in mockery: "Ree me the riddle of thy life!"

But he answered naught.

Then I threw down the wall of the well; and I burned the house with fire that stood thereby, with the men-servants and the maid-servants.

And none dared stay me; for I laughed and exulted in my madness. Yea, verily, I laughed, and laughed -- and laughed --

CHAPTER VII

Top

THEN being healed of my madness I took all the treasure of that old Magus which he had laid up for many years -- and none gainsaid me. Great and splendid was it of gold more than twelve bullocks could draw, of balassius rubies, and sardonyx, and beryl, and chrysoprase; of diamond and starry sapphire, of emerald much, very much, of topaz and of amethyst great and wonderful gems. Also he had a figure of Nuit greater than a woman, which was made of lapis lazuli specked with gold, carved with marvellous excellence. And he had the secret gem of Hadit that is not found on earth, for that it is invisible save when all else is no more seen.

Then went I into the market and bought slaves. I bought me in particular a giant, a Nubian blacker than polished granite seen by starlight, tall as a young palm and straight, yet more hideous than the Ape of Thoth. Also I bought a young pale stripling from the North, a silly boy with idle languishing ways. But his mouth burned like sunset when the dust-storms blow. So pale an weak was he that all despised him and mocked him for a girl. Then he took a white-hot iron from the fire and wrote with it my name in hieroglyphics on his breast; nor did his smile once alter while the flesh hissed and smoked.

Thus we went out a great caravan to a rocky islet in the Nile, difficult of access for that the waters foamed and swirled dangerously about it. There we builded a little temple shaped like a beehive; but there was no altar and no shrine therein; for in that temple should the god be sacrificed unto himself.

Myself I made the god thereof; I powdered my hair with gold, and inwound it with flowers. I gilded my eyelids, and I stained my lips with vermilion. I gilded my breasts and my nails, and as God and Victim in one was I daily sacrificed unto that strange thing that was none other than myself. I made my giant Nubian high priest; and I endowed his wand with magic power, so that he might properly perform my rites. This he did to such purpose that many men from Memphis and even from more distant towns, leaving their gods, came thither, and did sacrifice. Then I appointed also the pale boy warder of the Sanctuary: and he swore unto me to be faithful unto death.

Now there arose a great strife in Memphis, and many foolish and lewd women cried out against us. So fierce was the uproar that a great company of women issued forth from the city and came into the island They slew my pale boy at the gate, though sword in hand he fought against them. Then they frothed on, and I confronted them in my glory. They hesitated, and in that moment I smote them with a deadly itching, so that running forth they tore off their clothes and set themselves to scratching, while my people laughed until they ached.

At the term, indeed, with exhaustion and with loss of blood they died all; four hundred and two women perished in that great day's slaughter. So that the people of Memphis had peace for awhile.

But as for me, I mourned the loss of that young slave. I had his body embalmed as is not fitting for other than a king. And at the door of the temple I placed his sarcophagus beneath a hedge of knives and spears, so that there was no other access to my glory.

Like honour hath no slave had ever.

Thus then I abode three cycles of the season; and at the end of that time the high Priest died.

For mine was a strange and dreadful rite to do; none other, and none unfortified by magic power, could have done this thing.

Yet I too sickened of that everlasting sacrifice. I was become worn and wan; there was no blood but ice in my veins. I had indeed become all but a god ...

Therefore I took the body of my Nubian, and slew four young girls, and filled all the hollow spaces of his body with their blood. Then too I sealed up his body with eight seals; and the ninth seal was mine own, the centre of my godhead.

Then he rose slowly and staggeringly as I uttered the dreadful words:

A ka dua
Tuf ur biu
Bi aa chefu
Dudu ner af an nuteru!

Then I touched him with my wand and he rose into full power of his being; and we entered in, and for the last time did he perform (though silent) the ceremony. At whose end he lay shrivelled and collapsed, shrunken like an old wineskin; yet his blood availed me nothing. I was icier than before. Yet now indeed was I Osiris, for I sent out flames of cold gray glory from my skin, and mine eyes were rigid with ecstasy.

Yea, by Osiris himself, I swear it! Even as the eyes of all living men revolve ceaselessly, so were mine fixed!

Then I shook myself and went forth into the city of Memphis, my face being veiled and my steps led by slaves.

And there I went into the temples one by one; and I twitched aside my veil, whereat all men fell dead on the instant, and the gods tumbled from their places, and broke in pieces upon the floor.

And I veiled myself, and went into the market-place and lifted up my voice in a chant and cried:

Death, and desolation, and despair!
I lift up my voice, and all the gods are dumb.
I unveil my face, and all that liveth is no more,
I sniff up life, and breathe forth destruction.
I hear the music of the world, and its echo is Silence.

Death, and desolation, and despair!
The parting of the ways is come: the Equinox of the Gods is past.
Another day: another way.
Let them that hear me be abased before me!
Death, and desolation, and despair!

Then I pulled away my veil, and the cold lightnings of death shot forth, and the people of the city fell dead where they stood.

Save only one, a young boy, a flute-player, that was blind, and, seeing not those eyes of mine, died not.

Then to him I spake, saying:

"Arise, summon the priests and the people, all that remain. And let them build a temple unto Osiris the God of the dead, and let the dead be worshipped for ever and ever."

This I said, and went out from the city with the two slaves that I had left in the gate, and we went unto Nile, unto a cave by the bank of the river; and there I abode for many months, weeping for Isis my Lady. For though I had avenged her in many dreadful deeds, yet I brought her not back unto life. Moreover the lover of her was as it were dead in me, so that my heart stirred not at the thought of her. Say that my love wandered like a ghost unburied, frozen, adrift upon the winds!

Now of my deeds at this period it is almost too horrible to tell. For I performed great penance, in the hope of vitalizing that dead principle in me which men call the soul.

I starved myself shamefully, in this manner. First surrounding myself with all possible luxuries of food, brought in steaming and savoury from hour to hour, I yet condemned myself to subsist upon a little garlic and a little salt, with a little water in which oats had been bruised.

Then if any wish arose in me to eat of the dainties around me I gashed my- self with a sharp stone.

Moreover I kindled a great fire in the cave so that the slaves tumbled and fainted as they approached. And the smoke choked me so that I constantly vomited a black and ill-smelling mucus from my lungs, stained here and there with frothing blood.

Again, I suffered my hair to grow exceeding long, and therein I harboured vermin. Also, when I lay down to sleep, though this I did not till with swollen tongue and blackened throat I could no longer howl the name of my dead Lady, then (I say) did I smear my limbs with honey, that the rats of the cave might gnaw them as I slept. Moreover, I pillowed mine head upon a corpse dead of leprosy, and whenever that dead soul of mine stirred at all with love toward my Lady, then I caressed and kissed that corpse, and sang soft songs to it, playing with gracious words and gestures. All this spoke loudly to my soul, rebuking it for its weakness and corruption. So too the bitterness and foulness of my life would often overleap the limit of sensibility; and then for hours together would I be lost in a raging whirlwind of laughter. At this time my slaves would be afraid to come anight me, and then darting out of the cave I would catch one by the hair and dragging him within put him to exquisite torture. This indeed was of great use to me; for I would devise atrocious things, and if they served to excite his utmost anguish I would then try them on myself. Thus I would run needles steeped in Nile mud beneath my finger-nails, so that the sores festering might produce a sickening agony. Or again I would cut strips of skin and tear them off; but this filed, though it acted well enough upon the slave, for my own skin had become too brittle. Then I would take a piece of hard wood, and hammer it with a stone against the bones, hurting the membrane that covers them, and causing it to swell. This too I had to abandon, but the limb of the slave died, and he swelled up and rotted and turned green, and in shocking agony he died.

So then I was compelled to cure myself magically, and this was a great loss of force.

Yet was I "Far form the Happy Ones," although my lips hung on my fleshless face like bean-pods withered and blackened, and although there was not one inch of skin upon all my body that was not scarred.

Yet my trial was night its end. For the people of Memphis, wondering at the frequent purchases of dead lepers made always by the same slave, began, as is the wont of the ignorant, to spread foolish rumours. At last they said openly "there is an holy hermit in the old cave by Nile." The the barren women of the city came out stealthily to me in the hope that by my sanctity their dry sticks might blossom.

But I showed them my dead leper, and said "Let me first beget children upon this,and after I will do your business." This liked them not; yet they left me not alone, for they went home and cried out that I was an horror, a ghoul, a vampire. ... And at that all the young and beautiful women of the city, leaving their lovers and their husbands, flocked to me, bringing gifts. But I took them to the dead leper and said, "When you are beautiful as that is beautiful, and when I am weary of its beauty and its delight, then will I do your pleasure."

Then they all raged vehemently against me, and stirred up the men of the city to destroy me. And I, not being minded to display my magic force, went by night (so soon as I heard of this) and took sanctuary in the shrine of Osiris that I had caused them to build. And there I attained felicity; for uniting my consciousness with the gods, I obtained the expansion of that consciousness. Is not the kingdom of the dead a mighty kingdom?

So I perceived the universe as it were a single point of infinite nothing- ness yet of infinite extension; and becoming this universe, I became dissolved utterly therein. Moreover, my body lifted itself up and rose in the air to a great height beyond the shadow of the earth, and the earth rolled beneath me; yet of all this I knew nothing, for that I was all these things and none of them. Moreover I was united with Isis the Mother of Osiris, being yet her brother and her lord.

Woe, woe to me! for all this was but partial and imperfect; nor did I truly understand that which occurred.

Only this I knew, that I should return to my city of Thebai, and rule therein as High Priest of Osiris, no longer striving to some end unheard-of or impossible, but quietly and patiently living in the enjoyment of my dignities and wealth, even as a man.

Yet one thing I saw also, that as Isis is the Lady of all Nature, the living; and as Osiris is the Lord of the Dead, so should Horus come, the Hawk- headed Lord, as a young child, the image of all Nature and all Man raised above Life and Death, under the supreme rule of Hadit that is Force and of Nuit that is Matter -- though they are a Matter an a Force that transcend all our human conceptions of these things.

But of this more anon, in its due place.

CHAPTER VIII

Top

BEHOLD me then returned to Thebai! So scarred and altered was I, though not yet thirty years of age, that they knew me not. so I offered myself as a serving-man in the temple of Osiris, and I pleased the priests mightily, for by my magic power -- though they thought it to be natural -- I sang songs unto the god, and made hymns. Therefore in less than a year they began to speak of initiating me into the priesthood. Now the High Priest at this time was a young and vigorous man, black-bearded in the fashion of Osiris, with a single square tuft beneath the chin. Him had they chosen after my departure in the whirlwind. And the High Priestess was a woman of forty and two years old, both dark and beautiful, with flashing eyes and stern lips. Yet her body was slim and lithe like that of a young girl. Now, as it chanced, it was my turn to serve her with the funeral offerings; flesh of oxen and of geese, bread, and wine. And as she ate she spake with me; for she could see by her art that I was not a common serving-man. Then I took out the consecrated Wand of Khem that I had from my father; and I placed it in her hand. At that she wondered, for that Wand is the sign of a great and holy initiation: so rare that (as they say) no woman but one has ever attained unto it. Then she blessed herself that she had been permitted to look upon it, and prayed me to keep silence for a little while, for she had somewhat in her mind to do. And I lifted up the wand upon her in the nine-and-forty-fold benediction, and she received illumination thereof, and rejoiced. Then I fell at her feet -- for she was the High Priestess -- and kissed them reverently, and withdrew.

Then three days afterwards, as I learnt, she sent for a priestess who was skilled in certain deadly crafts and asked of her a poison. And she gave it, saying: "Let the High Priest of the God of the dead go down to the dead!" Then that wicked High Priestess conveyed unto him subtly the poison in the sacraments themselves, and he died thereof. Then by her subtlety she caused a certain youth to be made high priest who was slovenly and stupid, thinking in herself "Surely the god will reject him." But at his word the Image of the god glowed as was its wont. And at that she knew -- and we all knew -- that the glory was departed; for that the priests had supplanted the right ceremony by some trick of deceit and craft.

Thereat was she mightily cast down, for though wicked and ambitious, she had yet much power and knowledge.

But instead of using that power and that knowledge she sought to oppose craft with craft. And suspecting (aright) whose cunning had done this thing she bribed him to reverse the machinery, so that the High Priest might be shamed. But shamed he was not; for he lied, saying that the God glowed brighter than the Sun; and he lied securely, for Maat the Lady of Truth had no place in that temple. To such foulness was all fallen by my first failure to assume the god-form, and their priestly falsehood that my sanctity had rapt me into heaven. Nor had the wealth they lied to obtain availed them aught; for Pharaoh had descended upon Thebai, and laid heavy hand upon the coffers of the temple, so that they were poor. Even, they sold good auguries for gold; and these were a very destruction to them that bought. Then they sold curses, and sowed discord in the city. Wherefore the people grew poorer still, and their gifts to the temple waxed even less.

For there is no foolishness like the hunger after gain.

Of old the gods had given blessing, and the people offered freely of their plenty.

Now the priests sowed chaff, and reaped but barrenness.

So I waited patiently in silence to see what might befall. And this foolish priestess could think of no better expedient than formerly. But this young stupid man had guessed how his predecessor was dead, and he touched not the sacraments; but feigned.

Then she called for me -- and I was now ordained priest -- to take counsel of me; for she was minded to put me in his place.

Thus she made a great banquet for me; and when we were well drunken she laid her head upon my breast and said marvellous things to me of love, to me, who had loved the Veiled One! But I feigned all the madness of passion and made her drunk thereon, so that she talked great words, frothing forth like dead fishes swollen in the sun, of how we should rule Thebai and (it might be) displace Pharaoh and take his throne and sceptre. Yet, foolish woman! she could not think now she might remove this stupid high priest, her own nominee! So I answered her "Assume the Form of Osiris, and all will be well in the Temple of Osiris." Mocking her, for I knew that she could not. Yet so drunken was she upon love and wine that there and then she performed the ritual of Adoration and Assumption.

Then I in merry mood put out my power, and caused her in truth to become Osiris, so that she went icy stark,and her eyes fixed. ...

Then she tried to shriek with fear, and could no; for I had put upon her the silence of the tomb.

But all the while I feigned wonder and applause, so that she was utterly deceived. And being tired of mocking her, I bade her return. This she did, and knew not what to say. At first she pretended to have received a great secret; then, knowing how much higher was my grade initiation, dared not. Then, at last, being frightened, she flung herself at my feet and confessed all, pleading that at least her love for me was true. This may well have been; in any case I would have had compassion upon her, for in sooth her body was like a flower, white and pure, though her mouth was heavy and strong, her eyes wrinkled with lust, and her cheeks flaccid with deceit.

So I comforted her, pressing her soft body in mine arms, drinking the wine of her eyes, feeding upon the honey of her mouth.

Then at last I counselled her that she should bid him to a secret banquet, and that I should serve them, disguised in my old dress as a serving-man.

On the next night after this he came, and I served them, and she made open Love (though feigned) to him. Yet subtly, so that he thought her the deer and himself the lion. Then at last he went clean mad, and said: "I will give thee what thou wilt for one kiss of that thy marvellous mouth." Then she made him swear the oath by Pharaoh -- the which if he broke Pharaoh would have his head -- and she kissed him once, as if her passion were like the passion of Nile in flood for the sandy bars that it devoureth, and then leaping up, answered him, "give me thine office of High Priest for this my lover!" With that she took and fondled me. He gaped, aghast; then he took off the ring of office and flung it at her feet; he spat one word in her face; he slunk away. But I, picking up the ring of office, cried after him: "What shall be done to who insulteth the High Priestess?"

And he turned and answered sullenly: "I was the High Priest." "Thou hadst no longer the ring!" she raged at him, her face white with fury, her mouth dripping the foam of her anger -- for the word was a vile word! ...

Then she smote upon the bell, and the guard appeared. At her order they brought the instruments of death, and summoned the executioner, and left us there. Then the executioner bound him to the wheel of iron by his ankles and his waist and his throat; and he cut off his eyelids, that he might look upon his death. Then with his shears he cut off the lips from him, saying, "With these lips didst thou blaspheme the Holy One, the Bride of Osiris." Then one by one he wrenched out the teeth of him, saying every time: "With this tooth didst thou frame a blasphemy against the Holy One, the Bride of Osiris." Then he pulled out the tongue with his pincers, saying: "With this tongue didst thou speak blasphemy against the holy One, the Bride of Osiris." Then took he a strong corrosive acid and blistered his throat therewith, saying: "From this throat didst thou blaspheme the Holy One, the Bride of Osiris." Then he took a rod of steel, white-hot, and burnt away his secret parts, saying: "Be thou put to shame, who hast blasphemed the Holy One, the Bride of Osiris." After that, he took a young jackal and gave it to eat at his liver, saying: "Let the beasts that devour carrion devour the liver that lifted itself up toe blaspheme the Holy One, the Bride of Osiris!" With that the wretch died,and they exposed his body in the ditch of the city, and the dogs devoured it.

Now all this while had my lady dallied amorously with me, making such sweet moan of love as never was, yet her face fixed upon his eyes who loved her, and there glared in hell's torment, the body ever striving against the soul which should exceed.

And, as I judge, but the favour of Set the soul gat mastery therein.

Also, though I write it now, coldly, these many thousand years afterward, never had I such joy of love of any woman as with her, and at that hour, so that as I write it I remember well across the mist of time every honey word she spoke, every witching kiss (our mouths strained sideways) that she sucked from my fainting lips, every shudder of her soft strong body. I remember the jewelled coils of hair, how they stung like adders as they touched me; the sharp rapture of her pointed nails pressing me, now velvet-soft, now capricious-cruel, now (love-maddened) thrust deep to draw blood, as they played up and down my spine. But I saw nothing; by Osiris I swear it! I saw nothing, save only the glare in the eyes of that lost soul that writhed upon the wheel.

Indeed, as the hangman took out the corpse, we fell back and lay there among the waste of the banquet, the flagons overturned, the napery awry, the lamps extinct or spilt, the golden cups, chased with obscene images, thrown here and there, the meats hanging over the edge of their bejewelled dishes, their juice staining the white luxury of the linen; and in the midst ourselves, our limbs as careless as the wind, motionless.

One would have said: the end of the world is come. But through all that fiery abyss of sleep wherein I was plunged so deep, still stirred the cool delight of the knowledge that I had won the hand for which I played, that I was High Priest of Osiris in thebai.

But in the morning we rose and loathed each other, our mouths awry, our tongues hanging loose from their corners like thirsty dogs, our eyes blinking in agony from the torture of daylight, our limbs sticky with stale sweat. Therefore we rose and saluted each other in the dignity of our high offices; and we departed one from the other, and purified ourselves.

Then I went unto the Ceremony of Osiris, and for the last time the shameful farce was played.

But in my heart I vowed secretly to cleanse the temple of its chicanery and folly. Therefore at the end of the ceremony did I perform a mighty banishing, a banishing of all things mortal and immortal, even from Nuit that circleth infinite Space unto Hadit the Core of Things; from Amoun that ruleth before all the Gods unto Python the terrible Serpent that abideth at the end of things, from Ptah the god of the pure soul of aethyr unto besz the brute force of that which is grosser than earth, which hath no name, which is denser than lead and more rigid than steel; which is blacker than the thick darkness of the abyss, yet is within all and about all.

Amen!

Then during the day I took counsel with myself, and devised a cunning to match the cunning of them that had blasphemed Osiris, who had at last become my God.

Yea! bitterly would I avenge him on the morrow.

CHAPTER IX

Top

NOW this was the manner of my working, that I inspired the High Priestess to an Oracle, so that she prophesied, saying that Osiris should never be content with his servants unless they had passed the four ordeals of the elements. Now of old these rituals had been reserved for a special grade of initiation. The chapter was therefore not a little alarmed, until they remembered how shamefully all the true magic was imitated, so that the rumour went that this was but a device of the High Priestess to increase the reputation of the temple fore sanctity. And, their folly confirming them in this, they agreed cheerfully and boasted themselves. Now then did I swathe them one by one in the grave-clothes of Osiris, binding upon the breast and image, truly consecrated, of the god, with a talisman against the four elements.

Then I set them one by one upon a narrow and lofty tower, balanced, so that the least breath of wind would blow them off into destruction.

Those whom the air spared I next threw into Nile where most it foams and races. Only a few the water gave back again. These, however, did I bury for three days in the earth without sepulchre or coffin, so that the element of earth might combat them. And the rare ones whom earth spared I cast upon a fire of charcoal.

Now who is prepared for these ordeals (being firstly attuned to the elements) findeth them easy. He remains still, though the tempest rage upon the tower; in the water he floats easily and lightly; buried, he but throws himself into trance; and, lastly, his wrappings protect him against the fire, though all Thebai went to feed the blaze.

But it was not so with this bastard priesthood of Osiris. For of the three hundred only nine were found worthy. The High Priestess, however, I brought through by my magic, for she had amused me mightily, and I took great pleasure in her love, that was wilder than the rage of all the elements in one.

So I called together the nine who had survived, all being men, and gave them instruction and counsel, that they should form a secret brotherhood to learn and to teach the formula of the Osiris in its supreme function of initiating the human soul. That they should keep discipline in the temple only for the sake of the people, permitting every corruption yet withdrawing themselves from it. Is not the body perishable, and the skin most pure? So also he ancient practice of embalming should fall into desuetude, and that soon; for the world was past under the rule of Osiris, who loveth the charnel and the tomb.

All being sworn duly into this secret brotherhood I appointed them, one to preside over each grade, and him of the lowest grade to select the candidates and to govern the temple.

Then did I perform the invoking Ceremony of Osiris, having destroyed the blasphemous machinery; and now at last did the God answer me, glittering with infinite brilliance. Then I disclosed myself to the Priests, and they rejoiced exceedingly that after all those years the old lie was abolished, and the master come back to his own.

But the god uttered an Oracle, saying: "This last time shall I glitter with brilliance in My temple; for I am the god of Life in Death, concealed. Therefore shall your magic henceforth be a magic most secret in the heart; and whoso shall perform openly any miracle, him shall ye know for a liar and a pretender to the sacred wisdom.

"For this cause am I wrapped ever in a shroud of white starred with the three active colours; these things conceal Me, so that he who knoweth Me hath passed beyond them."

Then did the god call us each separately to him, and in each ear did he whisper a secret formula and a word of power, pertaining to the grade to which I had appointed him.

But to me he gave the supreme formula and the supreme word, the word that hath eight-and-seventy letters, the formula that hath five-and-sixty limbs.

So then I devoted myself there and then to a completer understanding of Osiris my God, so that I might discover his function in the whole course of the Cosmos.

For he that is born in the years of the power of a God thinketh that God to be eternal, one, alone. But he that is born in the hour of the weakness of the God, at the death of one and the birth of the other, seeith something (though it be little) of the course of things. And for him it is necessary to understand fully that change of office (for the gods neither die nor are re- born, but now one initiates and the other guards, and now one heralds and the other sanctifies) its purpose and meaning in the whole scheme of things.

So I, in this year V of the Equinox of the Gods (1908) wherein Horus took the place of Osiris, will by the light of this my magical memory seek to understand fully the formula of Horus -- Ra Hoor Khuit -- my god, that ruleth the world under Nuit and Hadit. Then as Ankh-f-na-khonsu left unto me the stelé 666 with the keys to that knowledge, so also may I write down in hieroglyph the formula of the Lady of the Forked Wand and of the Feather, that shall assume his throne and place when the strength of Horus is exhausted. So now the service of the Gods was to be secret and their magic concealed from men. They were to fall before the eyes of men from their place, and little sewer-rats were to come and mock at them, no man avenging them, and they utterly careless, not striking for themselves. Yet was there knowledge of them which an initiate might gain, though so much more difficult, immeasurably higher and more intimate.

My life from this moment became highly concentrated upon itself. I had no time either for ascetic practices or for any pleasures; nor would I take any active part in the service of the temple which, purified and regenerated, had become both subtly perfect and perfectly subtle.

It was not all of the people who did at all comprehend the change that had occurred; but the others obeyed and made believe to understand, lest their fellows should despise them. So it happened that the more ignorant and stupid any person was the more he feigned understanding; so that the least devout appeared the most devout -- as it is unto this day.

But for me all these things were as nothing; for I studied ever the nature of Osiris, concentrating myself into mysterious pure symbols. I understood why it was said that Isis had failed to discover the Phallus of Osiris, and thus perceived the necessity of Horus to follow him in the great succession of the Equinoxes. Moreover I fashioned talismans of pure light concerning Osiris, and I performed in light all the ceremonies of initiation into his mysteries.

These were interpreted by wise men and translated into the language of the twilight and graven on stone and in the memories of men.

Yet was I even more intrigued in that great struggle to apprehend the course of things, as it is seen from the standpoint of Destiny. Sop that I might leave true and intelligible images to enlighten the mind of him (whether myself or another) that should come after me to celebrate the Equinox of the Gods at the end of the period of Osiris.

As now hath come to pass.

Thus then three-and-thirty years I lived in the temple of Osiris a High Priest; and I subdued all men under me. Also I abolished the office of priestess, for had not Isis failed to find that venerable Phallus without which Osiris must be so melancholy a god? Therefore Therefore was Khemi to fall, and the world to be dark and sorrowful for many years.

Therefore I made mine High Priestess into a serving-maid, and with veiled face she served me all those many years, never speaking.

Yet they being accomplished, I thought fit to reward her. So magically I renewed about her the body of a young girl, and for a year she served me, unveiled and speaking at her pleasure.

And her time being come, she died.

Then I looked again into my destiny, and perceived that all my work was duly accomplished. nor could any use or worth be found in my body.

so therefore I determined to accept my great reward, that was granted unto me as the faithful minister of the god F.I.A.T. that is behind all manifestation of Will and of Intelligence, of whom Isis and Osiris and Horus are but the ministers.

Of this, and of my death, I will speak on another occasion.

But first I will discourse of the inhabitants of the kingdom that encircleth the world, so that they who fear may be comforted.

CHAPTER X

Top

BUT of these matters I am warned that I shall not now become aware, for that there be great mysteries therein contained, pertaining to a degree of initiation of which I am as yet unworthy.

(Thus the record comes abruptly to an end.)

LIBER LXI VEL CAUSAE
A.·.A.·.

The Preliminay Lection Including The History Lection

THE PRELIMINARY LECTION

In the Name of the Initiator, Amen.

1. In the beginning was Initiation. The flesh profiteth nothing; the mind profiteth nothing; that which is unknown to you and above these, while firmly based upon their equilibrium, giveth life.

2. In all systems of religion is to be found a system of Initiation, which may be defined as the process by which a man comes to learn that unknown Crown.

3. Though none can communicate either the knowledge or the power to achieve this, which we may call the Great Work, it is yet possible for initiates to guide others.

4. Every man must overcome his own obstacles, expose his own illusions. Yet others may assist him to do both, and they may enable him altogether to avoid many of the false paths, leading no whither, which tempt the weary feet of the uninitiated pilgrim. They can further insure that he is duly tried and tested, for there are many who think themselves to be Masters who have not even begun to tread the Way of Service that leads thereto.

5. Now the Great Work is one, and the Initiation is one, and the Reward is one, however diverse are the symbols wherein the Unutterable is clothed.

6. Hear then the history of the system which this lection gives you the opportunity of investigating.

Listen, we pray you, with attention: for once only does the Great Order knock at any one door.

Whosoever knows any member of that Order as such, can never know another, until he too has attained to mastery.

Here, therefore, we pause, that you may thoroughly search yourself, and consider if you are yet fitted to take an irrevocable step.

For the reading of that which follows is Recorded.

THE HISTORY LECTION

7. Some years ago a number of cipher MSS. were discovered and deciphered by certain students. They attracted much attention, as they purported to derive from the Rosicrucians. You will readily understand that the genuineness of the claim matters no whit, such literature being judged by itself, not by its reputed sources.

8. Among the MSS. was one which gave the address of a certain person in Germany, who is known to us as S.D.A. Those who discovered the ciphers wrote to S.D.A., and in accordance with the instructions received, an Order was founded which worked in a semi-secret manner.

9. After some time S.D.A. died: further requests for help were met with a prompt refusal from the colleagues of S.D.A. It was written by one of them that S.D.A.'s scheme had always been regarded with disapproval. But since the absolute rule of the adepts is never to interfere with the judgment of any other person whomsoeverhow much more, then, one of themselves, and that one most highly revered!they had refrained from active opposition. The adept who wrote this added that the Order had already quite enough knowledge to enable it or its members to formulate a magical link with the adepts.

10. Shortly after this, one called S.R.M.D. announced that he had formulated such a link, and that himself and two others were to govern the Order. New and revised rituals were issued, and fresh knowledge poured out in streams.

11. We must pass over the unhappy juggleries which characterized the next period. It has throughout proved impossible to elucidate the complex facts.

We content ourselves, then, with observing that the death of one of his two colleagues, and the weakness of the other, secured to S.R.M.D. the sole authority. The rituals were elaborated, though scholarly enough, into verbose and pretentious nonsense: the knowledge proved worthless, even where it was correct: for it is in vain that pearls, be they never so clear and precious, are given to the swine.

The ordeals were turned into contempt, it being impossible for any one to fail therein. Unsuitable candidates were admitted for no better reason than that of their worldly prosperity.

In short, the Order failed to initiate.

12. Scandal arose and with it schism.

13. In 1900 one P., a brother, instituted a rigorous test of S.R.M.D. on the one side and the Order on the other.

14. He discovered that S.R.M.D., though a scholar of some ability and a magician of remarkable powers, had never attained complete inititiation: and further had fallen from his original place, he having imprudently attracted to himself forces of evil too great and terrible for him to withstand.

The claim of the Order that the true adepts were in charge of it was definitely disproved.

15. In the Order, with two certain exceptions and two doubtful ones, he found no persons prepared for initiation of any sort.

16. He thereupon by his subtle wisdom destroyed both the Order and its chief.

17. Being himself no perfect adept, he was driven of the Spirit into the Wilderness, where he abode for six years, studying by the light of reason the sacred books and secret systems of initiation of all countries and ages.

18. Finally, there was given unto him a certain exalted grade whereby a man becomes master of knowledge and intelligence, and no more their slave. He perceived the inadequacy of science, philosophy, and religion; and exposed the self-contradictory nature of the thinking faculty.

19. Returning to England, he laid his achievements humbly at the feet of a certain adept D.D.S., who welcomed him brotherly and admitted his title to the grade which he had so hardly won.

20. Thereupon these two adepts conferred together, saying: May it not be written that the tribulations shall be shortened? Wherefore they resolved to establish a new Order which should be free from the errors and deceits of the former one.

21. Without Authority they could not do this, exalted as their rank was among adepts. They resolved to prepare all things, great and small, against that day when such Authority should be received by them, since they knew not where to seek for higher adepts than themselves, but knew that the true way to attract the notice of such was to equilibrate the symbols. The temple must be builded before the God can indwell it.

22. Therefore by the order of D.D.S. did P. prepare all things by his arcane science and wisdom, choosing only those symbols which were common to all systems, and rigorously rejecting all names and words which might be supposed to imply any religious or metaphysical theory. To do this utterly was found impossible, since all language has a history, and the use (for example) of the word <<spirit>> implies the Scholastic Philosophy and the Hindu and Taoist theories concerning the breath of man. So was it difficult to avoid implication of some undesirable bias by using the words <<order,>> << circle,>> <<chapter,>> <<society,>> <<brotherhood,>> or any other to designate the body of initiates.

23. Deliberately, therefore, did he take refuge in vagueness. Not to veil the truth to the Neophyte, but to warn him against valuing non- essentials. Should therefore the candidate hear the name of any God, let him not rashly assume that it refers to any known God, save only the God known to himself. Or should the ritual speak in terms (however vague) which seem to imply Egyptian, Taoist, Buddhist, Indian, Persian, Greek, Judaic, Christian, or Moslem philosoÿhy, let him reflect that this is a defect of language; the literary limitation and not the spiritual prejudice of the man P.

24. Especially let him guard against the finding of definite sectarian symbols in the teaching of his master, and the reasoning from the known to the unknown which assuredly will tempt him.

We labour earnestly, dear brother, that you may never be led away to perish upon this point; for thereon have many holy and just men been wrecked. By this have all the visible systems lost the essence of wisdom.

We have sought to reveal the Arcanum; we have only profaned it.

25. Now when P. had thus with bitter toil prepared all things under the guidance of D.D.S. (even as the hand writes, while the conscious brain, though ignorant of the detailed movements, applauds or disapproves the finished work) there was a certain time of repose, as the earth lieth fallow.

26. Meanwhile these adepts busied themselves intently with the Great Work.

27. In the fullness of time, even as a blossoming tree that beareth fruit in its season, all these pains were ended, and these adepts and their companions obtained the reward which they had soughtthey were to be admitted to the Eternal and Invisible Order that hath no name among men.

28. They therefore who had with smiling faces abandoned their homes, their possessions, their wives, their children, in order to perform the Great Work, could with steady calm and firm correctness abandon the Great Work itself: for this is the last and greatest projection of the alchemist.

29. Also one V.V.V.V.V. arose, an exalted adept of the rank of Master of the Temple (or this much He disclosed to the Exempt Adepts) and His utterance is enshrined in the Sacred Writings.

30. Such are Liber Legis, Liber Cordis Cincti Serpente, Liber Liberi vel Lapidis Lazuli and such others whose existence may one day be divulged unto you. Beware lest you interpret them either in the Light or in the darkness, for only in L.V.X. may they be understood.

31. Also He conferred upon D.D.S., O.M., and another, the Authority of the Triad, who in turn have delegated it unto others, and they yet again, so that the Body of Initiates may be perfect, even from the Crown unto the Kingdom and beyond.

32. For Perfection abideth not in the Pinnacles, or in the Foundations, but in the ordered Harmony of one with all.

LIBER ISRAFEL
sub figura LXIV

A.·. A.·.
Publication in Class B.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.·. A.·.
[This book was formerly called "Anubis," and is referred to the 20th key, "The Angel."]

0. The Temple being in darkness, and the Speaker ascended into his place let him begin by a ritual of the Enterer, as followeth.

HB:Vau Priocul, O procul este profani.
Bahlasti! Ompehda!
In the name of the Mighty and Terrible One, I proclaim that I have banished the Shells unto their habitations.
I invoke Tahuti, the Lord of Wisdom and of Utterance, the God that cometh forth from the Veil.
O Thou! Majesty of Godhead! Wisdom-crowned Tahuti! Lord of the Gates of the Universe! Thee, Thee, I invoke. 
O Thou of the Ibis Head! Thee, Thee I invoke. 
Thou who wieldest the Wand of Double Power! Thee, Thee I invoke! 
Thou who bearest in Thy left hand the Rose and Cross of Light and Life: Thee, Thee, I invoke. 
Thou, whose head is as an emerald, and Thy nemmes as the night-sky blue! Thee, Thee I invoke. 
Thou, whose skin is of flaming orange as though it burned in a furnace! Thee, Thee I invoke.
Behold! I am Yesterday, To-Day, and the Brother of To-Morrow! 
I am born again and and again. 
Mine is the Unseen Force, whereof the Gods are sprung! Which is as Life unto the Dwellers in the Watch-Towers of the Universe. 
I am the Charioteer of the East, Lord of the Past and of the Future. 
I see by mine own inward light: Lord of Resurrection; Who cometh forth from the Dusk, and my birth is from the House of Death.
O ye two Divine Hawks upon your Pinnacles! 
Who keep watch over the Universe! 
Ye who company the Bier to the House of Rest! 
Who pilot the Ship of Ra advancing onwards to the heights of heaven! 
Lord of the Shrine which standeth in the Centre of the Earth!
Behold, He is in me, and I in Him! 
Mine is the Radiance, wherein Ptah floatheth over the firmament! 
I travel upon high! 
I tread upon the firmament of Nu! 
I raise a flashing flame, with the lightning of Mine Eye! 
Ever rushing on, in the splendour of the daily glorified Ra: giving my life to the Dwellers of Earth.
If I say "Come up upon the mountains!" the Celestial Waters shall flow at my Word.
For I am Ra incarnate! 
Kephra created in the Flesh! 
I am the Eidolon of my father Tmu, Lord of the City of the Sun!
The God who commands is in my mouth! 
The God of Wisdom is in my Heart! 
My tongue is the Sanctuary of Truth! 
And a God sitteth upon my lips.
My Word is accomplished every day! 
And the desire of my heart realises itself, as that of Ptah when He createth! 
I am Eternal; therefore all things are as my designs; therefore do all things obey my Word.
Therefore do Thou come forth unto me from Thine abode in the Silence: Unutterable Wisdom! All-Light! All-Power! 
Thoth! Hermes! Mercury! Odin! 
By whatever name I call Thee, Thou art still nameless to Eternity:. Come Thou forth, I say, and aid and guard me in this work of Art.
Thou, Star of the East, that didst conduct the Magi! 
Thou art The Same all-present in Heaven and in Hell! 
Thou that vibratest between the Light and the Darkness! 
Rising, descending! Changing ever, yet ever The Same! 
The Sun is Thy Father! 
Thy Mother is the Moon! 
The Wind hath borne Thee in its bosom: and Earth hath ever nourished the changeless Godhead of Thy Youth!
Come Thou forth, I say, come Thou forth! 
And make all Spirits subject unto Me: 
So that every Spirit of the Firmament 
And of the Ether. 
And of the Earth. 
And under the Earth. 
On dry land 
And in the Water. 
Of whirling Air 
And of rushing Fire. 
And every Spell and Scourge of God the Vast One, may be obedient unto Me!
I invoke the priestess of the Silver Star, Asi the Curved One, by the ritual of Silence.
I make open the gate of Bliss; I descend from the Palace of the Stars; I greet you, I embrace you, O children of Earth, that are gathered together in the Hall of Darkness.
(A pause.)
The Speech in the Silence. 
The Words against the Son of Night. 
The Voice of Tahuti in the Universe in the Presence of the Eternal. 
The Formulas of Knowledge. 
The Wisdom of Breath. 
The Root of Vibration. 
The Shaking of the Invisible. 
The Rolling Asunder of the Darkness. 
The Becoming Visible of Matter.
The Piercing of the Scales of the Crocodile. 
The Breaking Forth of the Light!
(Follows the Lection.)
There is an end of the speech; let the Silence of darkness be broken; let it return into the silence of light.
The speaker silently departs; the listeners disperse unto their homes; yea, they disperse unto their homes.

LIBER CORDIS CINCTI SERPENTE
vel
LXV 
sub FIGURA


I

I am the Heart; and the Snake is entwined
About the invisible core of the mind.
Rise, O my snake! It is now is the hour
Of the hooded and holy ineffable flower.
Rise, O my snake, into brilliance of bloom
On the corpse of Osiris afloat in the tomb!
O heart of my mother, my sister, mine own,
Thou art given to Nile, to the terror Typhon!
Ah me! but the glory of ravening storm
Enswathes thee and wraps thee in frenzy of form.
Be still, O my soul! that the spell may dissolve
As the wands are upraised, and the aeons revolve.
Behold! in my beauty how joyous Thou art,
O Snake that caresses the crown of mine heart!
Behold! we are one, and the tempest of years
Goes down to the dusk, and the Beetle appears.
O Beetle! the drone of Thy dolorous note
Be ever the trance of this tremulous throat!
I await the awaking! The summons on high
From the Lord Adonai, from the Lord Adonai!
Adonai spake unto V.V.V.V.V., saying: There must ever be division in the word.
For the colours are many, but the light is one.
Therefore thou writest that which is of mother of emerald, and of lapis-lazuli, and of turquoise, and of alexandrite.
Another writeth the words of toÿaz, and of deep amethyst, and of gray sapphire, and of deep sapphire with a tinge as of blood.
Therefore do ye fret yourselves because of this.
Be not contented with the image.
I who am the Image of an Image say this.
Debate not of the image, saying Beyond! Beyond!
One mounteth unto the Crown by the moon and by the Sun, and by the arrow, and by the Foundation, and by the dark home of the stars from the black earth.
Not otherwise may ye reach unto the Smooth Point.
Nor is it fitting for the cobbler to prate of the Royal matter. O cobbler! mend me this shoe, that I may walk. O king! if I be thy son, let us speak of the Embassy to the King thy Brother.
Then was there silence. Speech had done with us awhile.
There is a light so strenuous that it is not perceived as light.
Wolf's bane is not so sharp as steel; yet it pierceth the body more subtly.
Even as evil kisses corrupt the blood, so do my words devour the spirit of man.
I breathe, and there is infinite dis-ease in the spirit.
As an acid eats into steel, as a cancer that utterly corrupts the body; so am I unto the spirit of man.
I shall not rest until I have dissolved it all.
So also the light that is absorbed. One absorbs little and is called white and glistening; one absorbs all and is called black.
Therefore, O my darling, art thou black.
O my beautiful, I have likened thee to a jet Nubian slave, a boy of melancholy eyes.
O the filthy one! the dog! they cry against thee.
Because thou art my beloved.
Happy are they that praise thee; for they see thee with Mine eyes.
Not aloud shall they praise thee; but in the night watch one shall steal close, and grip thee with the secret grip; another shall privily cast a crown of violets over thee; a third shall greatly dare, and press mad lips to thine.
Yea! the night shall cover all, the night shall cover all.
Thou wast long seeking Me; thou didst run forward so fast that I was unable to come up with thee.
O thou darling fool! what bitterness thou didst crown thy days withal.
Now I am with thee; I will never leave thy being.
For I am the soft sinuous one entwined about thee, heart of gold!
My head is jewelled with twelve stars; My body is white as milk of the stars; it is bright with the blue of the abyss of stars invisible.
I have found that which could not be found; I have found a vessel of quicksilver.
Thou shalt instruct thy servant in his ways, thou shalt speak often with him.
(The scribe looketh upwards and crieth) Amen! Thou hast spoken it, Lord God!
Further Adonai spake unto V.V.V.V.V. and said:
Let us take our delight in the multitude of men!
Let us shape unto ourselves a boat of mother-of-pearl from them, that we may ride upon the river of Amrit!
Thou seest yon petal of amaranth, blown by the wind from the low sweet brows of Hathor?
(The Magister saw it and rejoiced in the beauty of it.) Listen!
(From a certain world came an infinite wail.)
That falling petal seemed to the little ones a wave to engulph their continent.
So they will reproach thy servant, saying: Who hath set thee to save us?
He will be sore distressed.
All they understand not that thou and I are fashioning a boat of mother-of-pearl. We will sail down the river of Amrit even to the yew-groves of Yama, where we may rejoice exceedingly.
The joy of men shall be our silver gleam, their woe our blue gleam -- all in the mother-of-pearl.
(The scribe was wroth thereat. He spake:
O Adonai and my master, I have borne the inkhorn and the pen without pay, in order that I might search this river of Amrit, and sail thereon as one of ye. This I demand for my fee, that I partake of the echo of your kisses.)
(And immediately it was granted unto him.)
(Nay; but not therewith was he content. By an infinite abasement unto shame did he strive. Then a voice:)
Thou strivest ever; even in thy yielding thou strivest to yield -- and lo! thou yieldest not.
Go thou unto the outermost places and subdue all things.
Subdue thy fear and thy disgust. Then -- yield!
There was a maiden that strayed among the corn, and sighed; then grew a new birth, a narcissus, and therein she forgot her sighing and her loneliness.
Even instantly rode Hades heavily upon her, and ravished her away.
(Then the scribe knew the narcissus in his heart; but because it came not to his lips, therefore was he shamed and spake no more.)
Adonai spake yet again with V.V.V.V.V. and said:
The earth is ripe for vintage; let us eat of her grapes, and be drunken thereon.
And V.V.V.V.V. answered and said: O my lord, my dove, my excellent one, how shall this word seem unto the children of men?
And He answered him: Not as thou canst see.
It is certain that every letter of this cipher hath some value; but who shall determine the value? For it varieth ever, according to the subtlety of Him that made it.
And He answered Him: Have I not the key thereof
? I am clothed with the body of flesh; I am one with the Eternal and Omnipotent God.
Then said Adonai: Thou hast the Head of the Hawk, and thy Phallus is the Phallus of Asar. Thou knowest the white, and thou knowest the black, and thou knowest that these are one. But why seekest thou the knowledge of their equivalence?
And he said: That my Work may be right.
And Adonai said: The strong brown reaper swept his swathe and rejoiced. The wise man counted his muscles, and pondered, and understood not, and was sad.
Reap thou, and rejoice!
Then was the Adept glad, and lifted his arm.
Lo! an earthquake, and plague, and terror on the earth!
A casting down of them that sate in high places; a famine upon the multitude!
And the grape fell ripe and rich into his mouth.
Stained is the purple of thy mouth, O brilliant one, with the white glory of the lips of Adonai.
The foam of the grape is like the storm upon the sea; the ships tremble and shudder; the shipmaster is afraid.
That is thy drunkenness, O holy one, and the winds whirl away the soul of the scribe into the happy haven.
O Lord God! let the haven be cast down by the fury of the storm! Let the foam of the grape tincture my soul with Thy light!
Bacchus grew old, and was Silenus; Pan was ever Pan for ever and ever more throughout the æons.
Intoxicate the inmost, O my lover, not the outermost!
So was it -- ever the same! I have aimed at the peeled wand of my God, and I have hit; yea, I have hit.
II

I passed into the mountain of lapis-lazuli, even as a green hawk between the pillars of turquoise that is seated upon the throne of the East.
So came I to Duant, the starry abode, and I heard voices crying aloud.
O Thou that sittest upon the Earth! (so spake a certain Veiled One to me) thou art not greater than thy mother! Thou speck of dust infinitesimal!
Thou art the Lord of Glory, and the unclean dog.
Stooping down, dipping my wings, I came unto the darkly-splendid abodes. There in that formless abyss was I made a partaker of the Mysteries Averse.
I suffered the deadly embrace of the Snake and of the Goat; I paid the infernal homage to the shame of Khem.
Therein was this virtue, that the One became the all.
Moreover I beheld a vision of a river. There was a little boat thereon; and in it under purple sails was a golden woman, an image of Asi wrought in finest gold. Also the river was of blood, and the boat of shining steel. Then I loved her; and, loosing my girdle, cast myself into the stream.
I gathered myself into the little boat, and for many days and nights did I love her, burning beautiful incense before her.
Yea! I gave her of the flower of my youth.
But she stirred not; only by my kisses I defiled her so that she turned to blackness before me.
Yet I worshipped her, and gave her of the flower of my youth.
Also it came to pass, that thereby she sickened, and corrupted before me. Almost I cast myself into the stream.
Then at the end appointed her body was whiter than the milk of the stars, and her lips red and warm as the sunset, and her life of a white heat like the heat of the midmost sun.
Then rose she up from the abyss of Ages of Sleep, and her body embraced me. Altogether I melted into her beauty and was glad.
The river also became the river of Amrit, and the little boat was the chariot of the flesh, and the sails thereof the blood of the heart that beareth me, that beareth me.
O serpent woman of the stars! I, even I, have fashioned Thee from a pale image of fine gold.
Also the Holy One came upon me, and I beheld a white swan floating in the blue.
Between its wings I sate, and the æons fled away.
Then the swan flew and dived and soared, yet no whither we went.
A little crazy boy that rode with me spake unto the swan, and said:
Who art thou that dost float and fly and dive and soar in the inane? Behold, these many æons have passed; whence camest thou? Whither wilt thou go?
And laughing I chid him, saying: No whence! No whither!
The swan being silent, he answered: Then, if with no goal, why this eternal journey?
And I laid my head against the Head of the Swan, and laughed, saying: Is there not joy ineffable in this aimless winging? Is there not weariness and impatience for who would attain to some goal?
And the swan was ever silent. Ah! but we floated in the infinite Abyss. Joy! Joy!
White swan, bear thou ever me up between thy wings!
O silence! O rapture! O end of things visible and invisible! This is all mine, who am Not.
Radiant God! Let me fashion an image of gems and gold for Thee! that the people may cast it down and trample it to dust! That Thy glory may be seen of them.
Nor shall it be spoken in the markets that I am come who should come; but Thy coming shall be the one word.
Thou shalt manifest Thyself in the unmanifest; in the secret places men shall meet with thee, and Thou shalt overcome them.
I saw a pale sad boy that lay upon the marble in the sunlight, and wept. By his side was the forgotten lute. Ah! but he wept.
Then came an eagle from the abyss of glory and overshadowed him. So black was the shadow that he was no more visible.
But I heard the lute lively discoursing through the blue still air.
Ah! messenger of the beloved One, let Thy shadow be over me!
Thy name is Death, it may be, or Shame, or Love.
So thou bringest me tidings of the Beloved One, I shall not ask thy name.
Where is now the Master? cry the little crazy boys.
He is dead! He is shamed! He is wedded! and their mockery shall ring round the world.
But the Master shall have had his reward.
The laughter of the mockers shall be a ripple in the hair of the Beloved One.
Behold! the Abyss of the Great Deep. Therein is a mighty dolphin, lashing his sides with the force of the waves.
There is also an harper of gold, playing infinite tunes.
Then the dolphin delighted therein, and put off his body, and became a bird.
The harper also laid aside his harp, and played infinite tunes upon the Pan-pipe.
Then the bird desired exceedingly this bliss, and laying down its wings became a faun of the forest.
The harper also laid down his Pan-pipe, and with the human voice sang his infinite tunes.
Then the faun was enraptured, and followed far; at last the harper was silent, and the faun became Pan in the midst of the primal forest of Eternity.
Thou canst not charm the dolphin with silence, O my prophet!
Then the adept was rapt away in bliss, and the beyond of bliss, and exceeded the excess of excess.
Also his body shook and staggered with the burden of that bliss and that excess and that ultimate nameless.
They cried He is drunk or He is mad or He is in pain or He is about to die; and he heard them not.
O my Lord, my beloved! How shall I indite songs, when even the memory of the shadow of thy glory is a thing beyond all music of speech or of silence?
Behold! I am a man. Even a little child might not endure Thee. And lo!
I was alone in a great park, and by a certain hillock was a ring of deep enamelled grass wherein green-clad ones, most beautiful, played.
In their play I came even unto the land of Fairy Sleep.
All my thoughts were clad in green; most beautiful were they.
All night they danced and sang; but Thou art the morning, O my darling, my serpent that twinest Thee about this heart.
I am the heart, and Thou the serpent. Wind Thy coils closer about me, so that no light nor bliss may penetrate.
Crush out the blood of me, as a grape upon the tongue of a white Doric girl that languishes with her lover in the moonlight.
Then let the End awake. Long hast thou slept, O great God Terminus! Long ages hast thou waited at the end of the city and the roads thereof.
Awake Thou! wait no more!
Nay, Lord! but I am come to Thee. It is I that wait at last.
The prophet cried against the mountain; come thou hither, that I may speak with thee!
The mountain stirred not. Therefore went the prophet unto the mountain, and spake unto it. But the feet of the proÿhet were weary, and the mountain heard not his voice.
But I have called unto Thee, and I have journeyed unto Thee, and it availed me not.
I waited patiently, and Thou wast with me from the beginning.
This now I know, O my beloved, and we are stretched at our ease among the vines.
But these thy prophets; they must cry aloud and scourge themselves; they must cross trackless wastes and unfathomed oceans; to await Thee is the end, not the beginning.
Let darkness cover up the writing! Let the scribe depart among his ways.
But thou and I are stretched at our ease among the vines; what is he?
O Thou beloved One! is there not an end? Nay, but there is an end. Awake! arise! gird up thy limbs, O thou runner; bear thou the Word unto the mighty cities, yea, unto the mighty cities.
III

Verily and Amen! I passed through the deep sea, and by the rivers of running water that abound therein, and I came unto the Land of No Desire.
Wherein was a white unicorn with a silver collar, whereon was graven the aphorism Linea viridis gyrat universa.
Then the word of Adonai came unto me by the mouth of the Magister mine, saying: O heart that art girt about with the coils of the old serpent, lift up thyself unto the mountain of initiation!
But I remembered. Yea, Than, yea, Theli, yea, Lilith! these three were about me from of old. For they are one.
Beautiful wast thou, O Lilith, thou serpent-woman!
Thou wast lithe and delicious to the taste, and thy perfume was of musk mingled with ambergris.
Close didst thou cling with thy coils unto the heart, and it was as the joy of all the spring.
But I beheld in thee a certain taint, even in that wherein I delighted.
I beheld in thee the taint of thy father the ape, of thy grandsire the Blind Worm of Slime.
I gazed upon the Crystal of the Future, and I saw the horror of the End of thee.
Further, I destroyed the time Past, and the time to Come -- had I not the Power of the Sand-glass?
But in the very hour I beheld corruption.
Then I said: O my beloved, O Lord Adonai, I pray thee to loosen the coils of the serpent!
But she was closed fast upon me, so that my Force was stayed in its inception.
Also I prayed unto the Elephant God, the Lord of Beginnings, who breaketh down obstruction.
These gods came right quickly to mine aid. I beheld them; I joined myself unto them; I was lost in their vastness.
Then I beheld myself compassed about with the Infinite Circle of Emerald that encloseth the Universe.
O Snake of Emerald, Thou hast no time Past, no time To Come. Verily Thou art not.
Thou art delicious beyond all taste and touch, Thou art not-to-be-beheld for glory, Thy voice is beyond the Speech and the Silence and the Speech therein, and Thy perfume is of pure ambergris, that is not weighed against the finest gold of the fine gold.
Also Thy coils are of infinite range; the Heart that Thou dost encircle is an Universal Heart.
I, and Me, and Mine were sitting with lutes in the market-place of the great city, the city of the violets and the roses.
The night fell, and the music of the lutes was stilled.
The tempest arose, and the music of the lutes was stilled.
The hour passed, and the music of the lutes was stilled.
But Thou art Eternity and Space; Thou art Matter and Motion; and Thou art the negation of all these things.
For there is no Symbol of Thee.
If I say Come up upon the mountains! the celestial waters flow at my word. But thou art the Water beyond the waters.
The red three-angled heart hath been set up in Thy shrine; for the priests despised equally the shrine and the god.
Yet all the while Thou wast hidden therein, as the Lord of Silence is hidden in the buds of the lotus.
Thou art Sebek the crocodile against Asar; thou art Mati, the Slayer in the Deep. Thou art Typhon, the Wrath of the Elements, O Thou who transcendest the Forces in their Concourse and Cohesion, in their Death and their Disruption. Thou art Python, the terrible serpent about the end of all things!
I turned me about thrice in every way; and always I came at the last unto Thee.
Many things I beheld mediate and immediate; but, beholding them no more, I beheld Thee.
Come thou, O beloved One, O Lord God of the Universe, O Vast One, O Minute One! I am Thy beloved.
All day I sing of Thy delight; all night I delight in Thy song.
There is no other day or night than this.
Thou art beyond the day and the night; I am Thyself, O my Maker, my Master, my Mate!
I am like the little red dog that sitteth upon the knees of the Unknown.
Thou hast brought me into great delight. Thou hast given me of Thy flesh to eat and of Thy blood for an offering of intoxication.
Thou hast fastened the fangs of Eternity in my soul, and the Poison of the Infinite hath consumed me utterly.
I am become like a luscious devil of Italy; a fair strong woman with worn cheeks, eaten out with hunger for kisses. She hath played the harlot in divers palaces; she hath given her body to the beasts.
She hath slain her kinsfolk with strong venom of toads; she hath been scourged with many rods.
She hath been broken in pieces upon the Wheel; the hands of the hangman have bound her unto it.
The fountains of water have been loosed upon her; she hath struggled with exceeding torment.
She hath burst in sunder with the weight of the waters; she hath sunk into the awful Sea.
So am I, O Adonai, my lord, and such are the waters of Thine intolerable Essence.
So am I, O Adonai, my beloved, and Thou hast burst me utterly in sunder.
I am shed out like spilt blood upon the mountains; the Ravens of Dispersion have borne me utterly away. Therefore is the seal unloosed, that guarded the Eighth abyss; therefore is the vast sea as a veil; therefore is there a rending asunder of all things.
Yea, also verily Thou art the cool still water of the wizard fount. I have bathed in Thee, and lost me in Thy stillness.
That which went in as a brave boy of beautiful limbs cometh forth as a maiden, as a little child for perfection.
O Thou light and delight, ravish me away into the milky ocean of the stars!
O Thou Son of a light-transcending mother, blessed be Thy name, and the Name of Thy Name, throughout the ages!
Behold! I am a butterfly at the Source of Creation; let me die before the hour, falling dead into Thine infinite stream!
Also the stream of the stars floweth ever majestical unto the Abode; bear me away upon the Bosom of Nuit!
This is the world of the waters of Maim; this is the bitter water that becometh sweet. Thou art beautiful and bitter, O golden one, O my Lord Adonai, O thou Abyss of Sapphire!
I follow Thee, and the waters of Death fight strenuously against me. I pass unto the Waters beyond Death and beyond Life.
How shall I answer the foolish man? In no way shall he come to the Identity of Thee!
But I am the Fool that heedeth not the Play of the Magician. Me doth the Woman of the Mysteries instruct in vain; I have burst the bonds of Love and of Power and of Worship.
Therefore is the Eagle made one with the Man, and the gallows of infamy dance with the fruit of the just.
I have descended, O my darling, into the black shining waters, and I have plucked Thee forth as a black pearl of infinite preciousness.
I have gone down, O my God, into the abyss of the all, and I have found Thee in the midst under the guise of No Thing.
But as Thou art the Last, Thou art also the Next, and as the Next do I reveal Thee to the multitude.
They that ever desired Thee shall obtain Thee, even at the End of their Desire.
Glorious, glorious, glorious art Thou, O my lover supernal, O Self of myself.
For I have found Thee alike in the Me and the Thee; there is no difference, O my beautiful, my desirable One! In the One and the Many have I found Thee; yea, I have found Thee.
IV

O crystal heart! I the Serpent clasp Thee; I drive home mine head into the central core of Thee, O God my beloved.
Even as on the resounding wind-swept heights of Mitylene some god-like woman casts aside the lyre, and with her locks aflame as an aureole, plunges into the wet heart of the creation, so I, O Lord my God!
There is a beauty unspeakable in this heart of corruption, where the flowers are aflame.
Ah me! but the thirst of Thy joy parches up this throat, so that I cannot sing.
I will make me a little boat of my tongue, and explore the unknown rivers. It may be that the everlasting salt may turn to sweetness, and that my life may be no longer athirst.
O ye that drink of the brine of your desire, ye are nigh to madness! Your torture increaseth as ye drink, yet still ye drink. Come up through the creeks to the fresh water; I shall be waiting for you with my kisses.
As the bezoar-stone that is found in the belly of the cow, so is my lover among lovers.
O honey boy! Bring me Thy cool limbs hither! Let us sit awhile in the orchard, until the sun go down! Let us feast on the cool grass! Bring wine, ye slaves, that the cheeks of my boy may flush red.
In the garden of immortal kisses, O thou brilliant One, shine forth! Make Thy mouth an opium-poppy, that one kiss is the key to the infinite sleep and lucid, the sleep of Shi-loh-am.
In my sleep I beheld the Universe like a clear crystal without one speck.
There are purse-proud penniless ones that stand at the door of the tavern and prate of their feats of wine-bibbing.
There are purse-proud penniless ones that stand at the door of the tavern and revile the guests.
The guests dally upon couches of mother-of-pearl in the garden; the noise of the foolish men is hidden from them.
Only the inn-keeper feareth lest the favour of the king be withdrawn from him.
Thus spake the Magister V.V.V.V.V. unto Adonai his God, as they played together in the starlight over against the deep black pool that is in the Holy Place of the Holy House beneath the Altar of the Holiest One.
But Adonai laughed, and played more languidly.
Then the scribe took note, and was glad. But Adonai had no fear of the Magician and his play.
For it was Adonai who had taught all his tricks to the Magician.
And the Magister entered into the play of the Magician. When the Magician laughed he laughed; all as a man should do.
And Adonai said: Thou art enmeshed in the web of the Magician. This He said subtly, to try him.
But the Magister gave the sign of the Magistry, and laughed back on Him: O Lord, O beloved, did these fingers relax on Thy curls, or these eyes turn away from Thine eye?
And Adonai delighted in him exceedingly.
Yea, O my master, thou art the beloved of the Beloved One; the Bennu Bird is set up in Philæ not in vain.
I who was the priestess of Ahathoor rejoice in your love. Arise, O Nile-God, and devour the holy place of the Cow of Heaven! Let the milk of the stars be drunk up by Sebek the dweller of Nile!
Arise, O serpent Apep, Thou art Adonai the beloved one! Thou art my darling and my lord, and Thy poison is sweeter than the kisses of Isis the mother of the Gods!
For Thou art He! Yea, Thou shalt swallow up Asi and Asar, and the children of Ptah. Thou shalt pour forth a flood of poison to destroy the works of the Magician. Only the Destroyer shall devour Thee; Thou shalt blacken his throat, wherein his spirit abideth. Ah, serpent Apep, but I love Thee!
My God! Let Thy secret fang pierce to the marrow of the little secret bone that I have kept against the Day of Vengeance of Hoor-Ra. Let Kheph-Ra sound his sharded drone! let the jackals of Day and Night howl in the wilderness of Time! let the Towers of the Universe totter, and the guardians hasten away! For my Lord hath revealed Himself as a mighty serpent, and my heart is the blood of His body.
I am like a love-sick courtesan of Corinth. I have toyed with kings and captains, and made them my slaves. To-day I am the slave of the little asp of death; and who shall loosen our love?
Weary, weary! saith the scribe, who shall lead me to the sight of the Rapture of my master?
The body is weary and the soul is sore weary and sleep weighs down their eyelids; yet ever abides the sure consciousness of ecstacy, unknown, yet known in that its being is certain. O Lord, be my helper, and bring me to the bliss of the Beloved!
I came to the house of the Beloved, and the wine was like fire that flieth with green wings through the world of waters.
I felt the red lips of nature and the black lips of perfection. Like sisters they fondled me their little brother; they decked me out as a bride; they mounted me for Thy bridal chamber.
They fled away at Thy coming; I was alone before Thee.
I trembled at Thy coming, O my God, for Thy messenger was more terrible than the Death-star.
On the threshold stood the fulminant figure of Evil, the Horror of emptiness, with his ghastly eyes like poisonous wells. He stood, and the chamber was corrupt; the air stank. He was an old and gnarled fish more hideous than the shells of Abaddon.
He enveloped me with his demon tentacles; yea, the eight fears took hold upon me.
But I was anointed with the right sweet oil of the Magister; I slipped from the embrace as a stone from the sling of a boy of the woodlands.
I was smooth and hard as ivory; the horror gat no hold. Then at the noise of the wind of Thy coming he was dissolved away, and the abyss of the great void was unfolded before me.
Across the waveless sea of eternity Thou didst ride with Thy captains and Thy hosts; with Thy chariots and horsemen and spearmen didst Thou travel through the blue.
Before I saw Thee Thou wast already with me; I was smitten through by Thy marvellous spear.
I was stricken as a bird by the bolt of the thunderer; I was pierced as the thief by the Lord of the Garden.
O my Lord, let us sail upon the sea of blood!
There is a deep taint beneath the ineffable bliss; it is the taint of generation.
Yea, though the flower wave bright in the sunshine, the root is deep in the darkness of earth.
Praise to thee, O beautiful dark earth, thou art the mother of a million myriads of myriads of flowers.
Also I beheld my God, and the countenance of Him was a thousandfold brighter than the lightning. Yet in his heart I beheld the slow and dark One, the ancient one, the devourer of His children.
In the height and the abyss, O my beautiful, there is no thing, verily, there is no thing at all, that is not altogether and perfectly fashioned for Thy delight.
Light cleaveth unto Light, and filth to filth; with pride one contemneth another. But not Thou, who art all, and beyond it; who art absolved from the Division of the Shadows.
O day of Eternity, let Thy wave break in foamless glory of sapphire upon the laborious coral of our making!
We have made us a ring of glistening white sand, strewn wisely in the midst of the Delightful Ocean.
Let the palms of brilliance flower upon our island; we shall eat of their fruit, and be glad.
But for me the lustral water, the great ablution, the dissolving of the soul in that resounding abyss.
I have a little son like a wanton goat; my daughter is like an unfledged eaglet; they shall get them fins, that they may swim.
That they may swim, O my beloved, swim far in the warm honey of Thy being, O blessed one, O boy of beatitude!
This heart of mine is girt about with the serpent that devoureth his own coils.
When shall there be an end, O my darling, O when shall the Universe and the Lord thereof be utterly swallowed up?
Nay! who shall devour the Infinite? who shall undo the Wrong of the Beginning?
Thou criest like a white cat upon the roof of the Universe; there is none to answer Thee.
Thou art like a lonely pillar in the midst of the sea; there is none to behold Thee, O Thou who beholdest all!
Thou dost faint, thou dost fail, thou scribe; cried the desolate Voice; but I have filled thee with a wine whose savour thou knowest not.
It shall avail to make drunken the peoÿle of the old gray sphere that rolls in the infinite Far-off; they shall lap the wine as dogs that lap the blood of a beautiful courtesan pierced through by the Spear of a swift rider through the city.
I too am the Soul of the desert; thou shalt seek me yet again in the wilderness of sand.
At thy right hand a great lord and a comely; at thy left hand a woman clad in gossamer and gold and having the stars in her hair. Ye shall journey far into a land of pestilence and evil; ye shall encamp in the river of a foolish city forgotten; there shall ye meet with Me.
There will I make Mine habitation; as for bridal will I come bedecked and anointed; there shall the Consummation be accomplished.
O my darling, I also wait for the brilliance of the hoineffable, when the universe shall be like a girdle for the midst of the ray of our love, extending beyond the permitted end of the endless One.
Then, O thou heart, will I the serpent eat thee wholly up; yea, I will eat thee wholly up.
V

Ah! my Lord Adonai, that dalliest with the Magister in the Treasure-House of Pearls, let me listen to the echo of your kisses.
Is not the starry heaven shaken as a leaf at the tremulous rapture of your love? Am not I the flying spark of light whirled away by the great wind of your perfection?
Yea, cried the Holy One, and from Thy spark will I the Lord kindle a great light; I will burn through the great city in the old and desolate land; I will cleanse it from its great impurity.
And thou, O prophet, shalt see these things, and thou shalt heed them not.
Now is the Pillar established in the Void; now is Asi fulfilled of Asar; now is Hoor let down into the Animal Soul of Things like a fiery star that falleth upon the darkness of the earth.
Through the midnight thou art dropt, O my child, my conqueror, my sword-girt captain, O Hoor! and they shall find thee as a black gnarl'd glittering stone, and they shall worship thee.
My pr&127;phet shall proÿhesy concerning thee; around thee the maidens shall dance, and bright babes be born unto them. Thou shalt inspire the proud ones with infinite pride, and the humble ones with an ecstasy of abasement; all this shall transcend the Known and the Unknown with somewhat that hath no name. For it is as the abyss of the Arcanum that is opened in the secret Place of Silence.
Thou hast come hither, O my prophet, through grave paths. Thou hast eaten of the dung of the Abominable Ones; thou hast prostrated thyself before the Goat and the Crocodile; the evil men have made thee a plaything; thou hast wandered as a painted harlot, ravishing with sweet scent and Chinese colouring, in the streets; thou hast darkened thine eyepits with Kohl; thou hast tinted thy lips with vermilion; thou hast plastered thy cheeks with ivory enamels. Thou hast played the wanton in every gate and by-way of the great city. The men of the city have lusted after thee to abuse thee and to beat thee. They have mouthed the golden spangles of fine dust wherewith thou didst bedeck thine hair; they have scourged the painted flesh of thee with their whips; thou hast suffered unspeakable things.
But I have burnt within thee as a pure flame without oil. In the midnight I was brighter than the moon; in the daytime I exceeded utterly the sun; in the byways of of thy being I inflamed, and dispelled the illusion.
Therefore thou art wholly pure before Me; therefore thou art My virgin unto eternity.
Therefore I love thee with surpassing love; therefore they that despise thee shall adore thee.
Thou shalt be lovely and pitiful toward them; thou shalt heal them of the unutterable evil.
They shall change in their destruction, even as two dark stars that crash together in the abyss, and blaze up in an infinite burning.
All this while did Adonai pierce my being with his sword that hath four blades; the blade of the thunderbolt, the blade of the Pylon, the blade of the serpent, the blade of the Phallus.
Also he taught me the holy unutterable word Ararita, so that I melted the sixfold gold into a single invisible point, whereof naught may be spoken.
For the Magistry of this Opus is a secret magistry; and the sign of the master thereof is a certain ring of lapis-lazuli with the name of my master, who am I, and the Eye in the Midst thereof.
Also He spake and said: This is a secret sign, and thou shalt not disclose it unto the profane, nor unto the neophyte, nor unto the zelator, nor unto the practicus, nor unto the philosophus, nor unto the lesser adept, nor unto the greater adept.
But unto the exempt adept thou shalt disclose thyself if thou have need of him for the lesser oÿerations of thine art.
Accept the worship of the foolish people, whom thou hatest. The Fire is not defiled by the altars of the Ghebers, nor is the Moon contaminated by the incense of them that adore the Queen of Night.
Thou shalt dwell among the people as a precious diamond among cloudy diamonds, and crystals, and pieces of glass. Only the eye of the just merchant shall behold thee, and plunging in his hand shall single thee out and glorify thee before men.
But thou shalt heed none of this. Thou shalt be ever the heart, and I the serpent will coil close about thee. My coil shall never relax throughout the æons. Neither change nor sorrow nor unsubstantiality shall have thee; for thou art passed beyond all these.
Even as the diamond shall glow red for the rose, and green for the rose-leaf; so shalt thou abide apart from the Impressions.
I am thou, and the Pillar is 'stablished in the void.
Also thou art beyond the stabilities of Being and of Consciousness and of Bliss; for I am thou, and the Pillar is 'stablished in the void.
Also thou shalt discourse of these things unto the man that writeth them, and he shall partake of them as a sacrament; for I who am thou am he, and the Pillar is 'stablished in the void.
From the Crown to the Abyss, so goeth it single and erect. Also the limitless sphere shall glow with the brilliance thereof.
Thou shalt rejoice in the pools of adorable water; thou shalt bedeck thy damsels with pearls of fecundity; thou shalt light flame like licking tongues of liquor of the Gods between the pools.
Also thou shalt convert the all-sweeping air into the winds of pale water, thou shalt transmute the earth into a blue abyss of wine.
Ruddy are the gleams of ruby and gold that sparkle therein; one drop shall intoxicate the Lord of the Gods my servant.
Also Adonai spake unto V.V.V.V.V. saying: O my little one, my tender one, my little amorous one, my gazelle, my beautiful, my boy, let us fill up the pillar of the Infinite with an infinite kiss!
So that the stable was shaken and the unstable became still.
They that beheld it cried with a formidable affright: The end of things is come upon us.
And it was even so.
Also I was in the spirit vision and beheld a parricidal pomp of atheists, coupled by two and by two in the supernal ecstasy of the stars. They did laugh and rejoice exceedingly, being clad in purple robes and drunken with purple wine, and their whole soul was one purple flower-flame of holiness.
They beheld not God; they beheld not the Image of God; therefore were they arisen to the Palace of the Splendour Ineffable. A sharp sword smote out before them, and the worm Hope writhed in its death-agony under their feet.
Even as their rapture shore asunder the visible Hope, so also the Fear Invisible fled away and was no more.
O ye that are beyond Aormuzdi and Ahrimanes! blessèd are ye unto the ages.
They shaped Doubt as a sickle, and reaped the flowers of Faith for their garlands.
They shaped Ecstasy as a spear, and pierced the ancient dragon that sat upon the stagnant water.
Then the fresh springs were unloosed, that the folk athirst might be at ease.
And again I was caught up into the presence of my Lord Adonai, and the knowledge and Conversation of the Holy One, the Angel that Guardeth me.
O Holy Exalted One, O Self beyond self. O Self-Luminous Image of the Unimaginable Naught, O my darling, my beautiful, come Thou forth and follow me.
Adonai, divine Adonai, let Adonai initiate refulgent dalliance! Thus I concealed the name of Her name that inspireth my rapture, the scent of whose body bewildereth the soul, the light of whose soul abaseth this body unto the beasts.
I have sucked out the blood with my lips; I have drained Her beauty of its sustenance; I have abased Her before me, I have mastered Her, I have possessed Her, and Her life is within me. In Her blood I inscribe the secret riddles of the Sphinx of the Gods, that none shall understand, -- save only the pure and voluptuous, obscene, the androgyne and the gynander that have passed beyond the bars of the prison that the old Slime of Khem set up in the Gates of Amennti.
O my adorable, my delicious one, all night will I pour out the libation on Thine altars; all night will I burn the sacrifice of blood; all night will I swing the thurible of my delight before Thee, and the fervour of the orisons shall intoxicate Thy nostrils.
O Thou who camest from the land of the Elephant, girt about with the tiger's pell, and garlanded with the lotus of the spirit, do Thou inebriate my life with Thy madness, that She leap at my passing.
Bid Thy maidens who follow Thee bestrew us a bed of flowers immortal, that we may take our pleasure thereupon. Bid Thy satyrs heap thorns among the flowers, that we may take our pain thereupon. Let the pleasure and pain be mingled in one supreme offering unto the Lord Adonai!
Also I heard the voice of Adonai the Lord the desirable one concerning that which is beyond.
Let not the dwellers in Thebai and the temples thereof prate ever of the Pillars of Hercules and the Ocean of the West. Is not the Nile a beautiful water?
Let not the priest of Isis uncover the nakedness of Nuit, for every step is a death and a birth. The priest of Isis lifted the veil of Isis, and was slain by the kisses of her mouth. Then was he the priest of Nuit, and drank of the milk of the stars.
Let not the failure and the pain turn aside the worshippers. The foundations of the pyramid were hewn in the living rock ere sunset; did the king weep at dawn that the crown of the pyramid was yet unquarried in the distant land?
There was also an humming-bird that spake unto the horned cerastes, and prayed him for poison. And the great snake of Khem the Holy One, the royal Uræus serpent, answered him and said:
I sailed over the sky of Nu in the car called Millions-of-Years, and I saw not any creature upon Seb that was equal to me. The venom of my fang is the inheritance of my father, and of my father's father; and how shall I give it unto thee? Live thou and thy children as I and my fathers have lived, even unto an hundred millions of generations, and it may be that the mercy of the Mighty Ones may bestow upon thy children a drop of the poison of eld.
Then the humming-bird was afflicted in his spirit, and he flew unto the flowers, and it was as if naught had been spoken between them. Yet in a little while a serpent struck him that he died.
But an Ibis that meditated upon the bank of Nile the beautiful god listened and heard. And he laid aside his Ibis ways, and became as a serpent, saying Peradventure in an hundred millions of millions of generations of my children, they shall attain to a drop of the poison of the fang of the Exalted One.
And behold! ere the moon waxed thrice he became an Uræus serpent, and the poison of the fang was established in him and his seed even for ever and for ever.
O thou Serpent Apep, my Lord Adonai, it is a speck of minutest time, this travelling through eternity, and in Thy sight the landmarks are of fair white marble untouched by the tool of the graver. Therefore Thou art mine, even now and for ever and for everlasting. Amen.
Moreover, I heard the voice of Adonai: Seal up the book of the Heart and the Serpent; in the number five and sixty seal thou the holy book.
As fine gold that is beaten into a diadem for the fair queen of Pharaoh, as great stones that are cemented together into the Pyramid of the ceremony of the Death of Asar, so do thou bind together the words and the deeds, so that in all is one Thought of Me thy delight Adonai.
And I answered and said: It is done even according unto Thy word. And it was done. And they that read the book and debated thereon passed into the desolate land of Barren Words. And they that sealed up the book into their blood were the chosen of Adonai, and the Thought of Adonai was a Word and a Deed; and they abode in the Land that the far-off travellers call Naught.
O land beyond honey and spice and all perfection! I will dwell therein with my Lord for ever.
And the Lord Adonai delighteth in me, and I bear the Cup of His gladness unto the weary ones of the old grey land.
They that drink thereof are smitten of disease; the abomination hath hold upon them, and their torment is like the thick black smoke of the evil abode.
But the chosen ones drank thereof, and became even as my Lord, my beautiful, my desirable one. There is no wine like unto this wine.
They are gathered together into a glowing heart, as Ra that gathereth his clouds about Him at eventide into a molten sea of Joy; and the snake that is the crown of Ra bindeth them about with the golden girdle of the death-kisses.
So also is the end of the book, and the Lord Adonai is about it on all sides like a Thunderbolt, and a Pylon, and a Snake, and a Phallus, and in the midst thereof he is like the Woman that jetteth out the milk of the stars from her paps; yea, the milk of the stars from her paps.

Chapter I

1. Had! The manifestation of Nuit.

2. The unveiling of the company of heaven.

3. Every man and every woman is a star.

4. Every number is infinite; there is no difference.

5. Help me, o warrior lord of Thebes, in my unveiling before the Children of men!

6. Be thou Hadit, my secret centre, my heart & my tongue!

7. Behold! it is revealed by Aiwass the minister of Hoor-paar-kraat.

8. The Khabs is in the Khu, not the Khu in the Khabs.

9. Worship then the Khabs, and behold my light shed over you!

10. Let my servants be few & secret: they shall rule the many & the known.

11. These are fools that men adore; both their Gods & their men are fools.

12. Come forth, o children, under the stars, & take your fill of love!

13. I am above you and in you. My ecstasy is in yours. My joy is to see your joy.

14. Above, the gemmed azure is
The naked splendour of Nuit;
She bends in ecstasy to kiss
The secret ardours of Hadit.
The winged globe, the starry blue,
Are mine, O Ankh-af-na-khonsu!
15. Now ye shall know that the chosen priest & apostle of infinite space is the prince-priest the Beast; and in his woman called the Scarlet Woman is all power given. They shall gather my children into their fold: they shall bring the glory of the stars into the hearts of men.

16. For he is ever a sun, and she a moon. But to him is the winged secret flame, and to her the stooping starlight.

17. But ye are not so chosen.

18. Burn upon their brows, o splendrous serpent!

19. O azure-lidded woman, bend upon them!

20. The key of the rituals is in the secret word which I have given unto him.

21. With the God & the Adorer I am nothing: they do not see me. They are as upon the earth; I am Heaven, and there is no other God than me, and my lord Hadit.

22. Now, therefore, I am known to ye by my name Nuit, and to him by a secret name which I will give him when at last he knoweth me. Since I am Infinite Space, and the Infinite Stars thereof, do ye also thus. Bind nothing! Let there be no difference made among you between any one thing & any other thing; for thereby there cometh hurt.

23. But whoso availeth in this, let him be the chief of all!

24. I am Nuit, and my word is six and fifty.

25. Divide, add, multiply, and understand.

26. Then saith the prophet and slave of the beauteous one: Who am I, and what shall be the sign? So she answered him, bendingdown, a lambent flame of blue, all-touching, all penetrant, her lovely hands upon the black earth, & her lithe body arched for love, and her soft feet not hurting the little flowers: Thou knowest! And the sign shall be my ecstasy, the consciousness of the continuity of existence, the omnipresence of my body.

27. Then the priest answered & said unto the Queen of Space, kissing her lovely brows, and the dew of her light bathing his whole body in a sweet-smelling perfume of sweat: O Nuit, continuous one of Heaven, let it be ever thus; that men speak not of Thee as One but as None; and let them speak not of thee at all, since thou art continuous!

28. None, breathed the light, faint & faery, of the stars, and two.

29. For I am divided for love's sake, for the chance of union.

30. This is the creation of the world, that the pain of division is as nothing, and the joy of dissolution all.

31. For these fools of men and their woes care not thou at all! They feel little; what is, is balanced by weak joys; but ye are my chosen ones.

32. Obey my prophet! follow out the ordeals of my knowledge! seek me only! Then the joys of my love will redeem ye from all pain. This is so: I swear it by the vault of my body; by my sacred heart and tongue; by all I can give, by all I desire of ye all.

33. Then the priest fell into a deep trance or swoon, & said unto the Queen of Heaven; Write unto us the ordeals; write unto us the rituals; write unto us the law!

34. But she said: the ordeals I write not: the rituals shall be half known and half concealed: the Law is for all.

35. This that thou writest is the threefold book of Law.

36. My scribe Ankh-af-na-khonsu, the priest of the princes, shall not in one letter change this book; but lest there be folly, he shall comment thereupon by the wisdom of Ra-Hoor-Khuit.

37. Also the mantras and spells; the obeah and the wanga; the work of the wand and the work of the sword; these he shall learn and teach.

38. He must teach; but he may make severe the ordeals.

39. The word of the Law is THELEMA.

40. Who calls us Thelemites will do no wrong, if he look but close into the word. For there are therein Three Grades, the Hermit, and the Lover, and the man of Earth. Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

41. The word of Sin is Restriction. O man! refuse not thy wife, if she will! O lover, if thou wilt, depart! There is no bond that can unite the divided but love: all else is a curse. Accursed! Accursed be it to the aeons! Hell.

42. Let it be that state of manyhood bound and loathing. So with thy all; thou hast no right but to do thy will.

43. Do that, and no other shall say nay.

44. For pure will, unassuaged of purpose, delivered from the lust of result, is every way perfect.

45. The Perfect and the Perfect are one Perfect and not two; nay, are none!

46. Nothing is a secret key of this law. Sixty-one the Jews call it; I call it eight, eighty, four hundred & eighteen.

47. But they have the half: unite by thine art so that all disappear.

48. My prophet is a fool with his one, one, one; are not they the Ox, and none by the Book?

49. Abrogate are all rituals, all ordeals, all words and signs. Ra-Hoor-Khuit hath taken his seat in the East at the Equinox of the Gods; and let Asar be with Isa, who also are one. But they are not of me. Let Asar be the adorant, Isa the sufferer; Hoor in his secret name and splendour is the Lord initiating.

50. There is a word to say about the Hierophantic task. Behold! there are three ordeals in one, and it may be given in three ways. The gross must pass through fire; let the fine be tried in intellect, and the lofty chosen ones in the highest. Thus ye have star & star, system & system; let not one know well the other!

51. There are four gates to one palace; the floor of that palace is of silver and gold; lapis lazuli & jasper are there; and all rare scents; jasmine & rose, and the emblems of death. Let him enter in turn or at once the four gates; let him stand on the floor of the palace. Will he not sink? Amn. Ho! warrior, if thy servant sink? But there are means and means. Be goodly therefore: dress ye all in fine apparel; eat rich foods and drink sweet wines and wines that foam! Also, take your fill and will of love as ye will, when, where and with whom ye will! But always unto me.

52. If this be not aright; if ye confound the space-marks, saying: They are one; or saying, They are many; if the ritual be not ever unto me: then expect the direful judgments of Ra Hoor Khuit!

53. This shall regenerate the world, the little world my sister, my heart & my tongue, unto whom I send this kiss. Also, o scribe and prophet, though thou be of the princes, it shall not assuage thee nor absolve thee. But ecstasy be thine and joy of earth: ever To me! To me!

54. Change not as much as the style of a letter; for behold! thou, o prophet, shalt not behold all these mysteries hidden therein.

55. The child of thy bowels, he shall behold them.

56. Expect him not from the East, nor from the West; for from no expected house cometh that child. Aum! All words are sacred and all prophets true; save only that they understand a little; solve the first half of the equation, leave the second unattacked. But thou hast all in the clear light, and some, though not all, in the dark.

57. Invoke me under my stars! Love is the law, love under will. Nor let the fools mistake love; for there are love and love. There is the dove, and there is the serpent. Choose ye well! He, my prophet, hath chosen, knowing the law of the fortress, and the great mystery of the House of God.

All these old letters of my Book are aright; but [Tzaddi] is not the Star. This also is secret: my prophet shall reveal it to the wise.

58. I give unimaginable joys on earth: certainty, not faith, while in life, upon death; peace unutterable, rest, ecstasy; nor do I demand aught in sacrifice.

59. My incense is of resinous woods & gums; and there is no blood therein: because of my hair the trees of Eternity.

60. My number is 11, as all their numbers who are of us. The Five Pointed Star, with a Circle in the Middle, & the circle is Red. My colour is black to the blind, but the blue & gold are seen of the seeing. Also I have asecret glory for them that love me.

61. But to love me is better than all things: if under the night stars in the desert thou presently burnest mine incense before me, invoking me with a pure heart, and the Serpent flame therein, thou shalt come a little to lie in my bosom. For one kiss wilt thou then be willing to give all; but whoso gives one particle of dust shall lose all in that hour. Ye shall gather goods and store of women and spices; ye shall wear rich jewels; ye shall exceed the nations of the earth in spendour & pride; but always in the love of me, and so shall ye come to my joy. I charge you earnestly to come before me in a single robe, and covered with a rich headdress. I love you! I yearn to you! Pale or purple, veiled or voluptuous, I who am all pleasure and purple, and drunkenness of the innermost sense, desire you. Put on the wings, and arouse the coiled splendour within you: come unto me!

62. At all my meetings with you shall the priestess say -- and her eyes shall burn with desire as she stands bare and rejoicing in my secret temple -- To me! To me! calling forth the flame of the hearts of all in her love-chant.

63. Sing the rapturous love-song unto me! Burn to me perfumes! Wear to me jewels! Drink to me, for I love you! I love you!

64. I am the blue-lidded daughter of Sunset; I am the naked brilliance of the voluptuous night-sky.

65. To me! To me!

66. The Manifestation of Nuit is at an end.

Chapter II

1. Nu! the hiding of Hadit.

2. Come! all ye, and learn the secret that hath not yet been revealed. I, Hadit, am the complement of Nu, my bride. I am not extended, and Khabs is the name of my House.

3. In the sphere I am everywhere the centre, as she, the circumference, is nowhere found.

4. Yet she shall be known & I never.

5. Behold! the rituals of the old time are black. Let the evil ones be cast away; let the good ones be purged by the prophet! Then shall this Knowledge go aright.

6. I am the flame that burns in every heart of man, and in the core of every star. I am Life, and the giver of Life, yet therefore is theknowledge of me the knowledge of death.

7. I am the Magician and the Exorcist. I am the axle of the wheel, and the cube in the circle. "Come unto me" is a foolish word: for it is I that go.

8. Who worshipped Heru-pa-kraath have worshipped me; ill, for I am the worshipper.

9. Remember all ye that existence is pure joy; that all the sorrows are but as shadows; they pass & are done; but there is that which remains.

10. O prophet! thou hast ill will to learn this writing.

11. I see thee hate the hand & the pen; but I am stronger.

12. Because of me in Thee which thou knewest not.

13. for why? Because thou wast the knower, and me.

14. Now let there be a veiling of this shrine: now let the light devour men and eat them up with blindness!

15. For I am perfect, being Not; and my number is nine by the fools; but with the just I am eight, and one in eight: Which is vital, for I am none indeed. The Empress and the King are not of me; for there is a further secret.

16. I am The Empress & the Hierophant. Thus eleven, as my bride is eleven.

17. Hear me, ye people of sighing!
The sorrows of pain and regret
Are left to the dead and the dying,
The folk that not know me as yet.
18. These are dead, these fellows; they feel not. We are not for the poor and sad: the lords of the earth are our kinsfolk.

19. Is a God to live in a dog? No! but the highest are of us. They shall rejoice, our chosen: who sorroweth is not of us.

20. Beauty and strength, leaping laughter and delicious languor, force and fire, are of us.

21. We have nothing with the outcast and the unfit: let them die in their misery. For they feel not. Compassion is the vice of kings: stamp down the wretched & the weak: this is the law of the strong: this is our law and the joy of the world. Think not, o king, upon that lie: That Thou Must Die: verily thou shalt not die, but live. Now let it be understood: If the body of the King dissolve, he shall remain in pure ecstasy for ever. Nuit! Hadit! Ra-Hoor-Khuit! The Sun, Strength & Sight, Light; these are for the servants of the Star & the Snake.

22. I am the Snake that giveth Knowledge & Delight and bright glory, and stir the hearts of men with drunkenness. To worship me take wine and strange drugs whereof I will tell my prophet, & be drunk thereof! They shall not harm ye at all. It is a lie, this folly against self. The exposure of innocence is a lie. Be strong, o man! lust, enjoy all things of sense and rapture: fear not that any God shall deny thee for this.

23. I am alone: there is no God where I am.

24. Behold! these be grave mysteries; for there are also of my friends who be hermits. Now think not to find them in the forest or on the mountain; but in beds of purple, caressed by magnificent beasts of women with large limbs, and fire and light in their eyes, and masses of flaming hair about them; there shall ye find them. Ye shall see them at rule, at victorious armies, at all the joy; and there shall be in them a joy a million times greater than this. Beware lest any force another, King against King! Love one another with burning hearts; on the low men trample in the fierce lust of your pride, in the day of your wrath.

25. Ye are against the people, O my chosen!

26. I am the secret Serpent coiled about to spring: in my coiling there is joy. If I lift up my head, I and my Nuit are one. If I droop down mine head, and shoot forth venom, then is rapture of the earth, and I and the earth are one.

27. There is great danger in me; for who doth not understand these runes shall make a great miss. He shall fall down into the pit called Because, and there he shall perish with the dogs of Reason.

28. Now a curse upon Because and his kin!

29. May Because be accursed for ever!

30. If Will stops and cries Why, invoking Because, then Will stops & does nought.

31. If Power asks why, then is Power weakness.

32. Also reason is a lie; for there is a factor infinite & unknown; & all their words are skew-wise.

33. Enough of Because! Be he damned for a dog!

34. But ye, o my people, rise up & awake!

35. Let the rituals be rightly performed with joy & beauty!

36. There are rituals of the elements and feasts of the times.

37. A feast for the first night of the Prophet and his Bride!

38. A feast for the three days of the writing of the Book of the Law.

39. A feast for Tahuti and the child of the Prophet--secret, O Prophet!

40. A feast for the Supreme Ritual, and a feast for the Equinox of the Gods.

41. A feast for fire and a feast for water; a feast for life and a greater feast for death!

42. A feast every day in your hearts in the joy of my rapture!

43. A feast every night unto Nu, and the pleasure of uttermost delight!

44. Aye! feast! rejoice! there is no dread hereafter. There is the dissolution, and eternal ecstasy in the kisses of Nu.

45. There is death for the dogs.

46. Dost thou fail? Art thou sorry? Is fear in thine heart?

47. Where I am these are not.

48. Pity not the fallen! I never knew them. I am not for them. I console not: I hate the consoled & the consoler.

49. I am unique & conqueror. I am not of the slaves that perish. Be they damned & dead! Amen. (This is of the 4: there is a fifth who is invisible, & therein am I as a babe in an egg. )

50. Blue am I and gold in the light of my bride: but the red gleam is in my eyes; & my spangles are purple & green.

51. Purple beyond purple: it is the light higher than eyesight.

52. There is a veil: that veil is black. It is the veil of the modest woman; it is the veil of sorrow, & the pall of death: this is none of me. Tear down that lying spectre of the centuries: veil not your vices in virtuous words: these vices are my service; ye do well, & I will reward you here and hereafter.

53. Fear not, o prophet, when these words are said, thou shalt not be sorry. Thou art emphatically my chosen; and blessed are the eyes that thou shalt look upon with gladness. But I will hide thee in a mask of sorrow: they that see thee shall fear thou art fallen: but I lift thee up.

54. Nor shall they who cry aloud their folly that thou meanest nought avail; thou shall reveal it: thou availest: they are the slaves of because: They are not of me. The stops as thou wilt; the letters? change them not in style or value!

55. Thou shalt obtain the order & value of the English Alphabet; thou shalt find new symbols to attribute them unto.

56. Begone! ye mockers; even though ye laugh in my honour ye shall laugh not long: then when ye are sad know that I have forsaken you.

57. He that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that is filthy shall be filthy still.

58. Yea! deem not of change: ye shall be as ye are, & not other. Therefore the kings of the earth shall be Kings for ever: the slaves shall serve. There is none that shall be cast down or lifted up: all is ever as it was. Yet there are masked ones my servants: it may be that yonder beggar is a King. A King may choose his garment as he will: there is no certain test: but a beggar cannot hide his poverty.

59. Beware therefore! Love all, lest perchance is a King concealed! Say you so? Fool! If he be a King, thou canst not hurt him.

60. Therefore strike hard & low, and to hell with them, master!

61. There is a light before thine eyes, o prophet, a light undesired, most desirable.

62. I am uplifted in thine heart; and the kisses of the stars rain hard upon thy body.

63. Thou art exhaust in the voluptuous fullness of the inspiration; the expiration is sweeter than death, more rapid and laughterful than a caress of Hell's own worm.

64. Oh! thou art overcome: we are upon thee; our delight is all over thee: hail! hail: prophet of Nu! prophet of Had! prophet of Ra-Hoor-Khu! Now rejoice! now come in our splendour & rapture! Come in our passionate peace, & write sweet words for the Kings.

65. I am the Master: thou art the Holy Chosen One.

66. Write, & find ecstasy in writing! Work, & be our bed in working! Thrill with the joy of life & death! Ah! thy death shall be lovely: whososeeth it shall be glad. Thy death shall be the seal of the promise of our age long love. Come! lift up thine heart & rejoice! We are one; we are none.

67. Hold! Hold! Bear up in thy rapture; fall not in swoon of the excellent kisses!

68. Harder! Hold up thyself! Lift thine head! breathe not so deep -- die!

69. Ah! Ah! What do I feel? Is the word exhausted?

70. There is help & hope in other spells. Wisdom says: be strong! Then canst thou bear more joy. Be not animal; refine thy rapture! If thou drink, drink by the eight and ninety rules of art: if thou love, exceed by delicacy; and if thou do aught joyous, let there be subtlety therein!

71. But exceed! exceed!

72. Strive ever to more! and if thou art truly mine -- and doubt it not, an if thou art ever joyous! -- death is the crown of all.

73. Ah! Ah! Death! Death! thou shalt long for death. Death is forbidden, o man, unto thee.

74. The length of thy longing shall be the strength of its glory. He that lives long & desires death much is ever the King among the Kings.

75. Aye! listen to the numbers & the words:

76. 4 6 3 8 A B K 2 4 A L G M O R 3 Y X 24 89 R P S T O V A L. What meaneth this, o prophet? Thou knowest not; nor shalt thou know ever. There cometh one to follow thee: he shall expound it. But remember, o chose none, to be me; to follow the love of Nu in the star-lit heaven; to look forth upon men, to tell them this glad word.

77. O be thou proud and mighty among men!

78. Lift up thyself! for there is none like unto thee among men or among Gods! Lift up thyself, o my prophet, thy stature shall surpass the stars. They shall worship thy name, foursquare, mystic, wonderful, the number of the man; and the name of thy house 418.

79. The end of the hiding of Hadit; and blessing & worship to the prophet of the lovely Star!

Chapter III

1. Abrahadabra; the reward of Ra Hoor Khut.

2. There is division hither homeward; there is a word not known. Spelling is defunct; all is not aught. Beware! Hold! Raise the spell of Ra-Hoor-Khuit!

3. Now let it be first understood that I am a god of War and of Vengeance. I shall deal hardly with them.

4. Choose ye an island!

5. Fortify it!

6. Dung it about with enginery of war!

7. I will give you a war-engine.

8. With it ye shall smite the peoples; and none shall stand before you.

9. Lurk! Withdraw! Upon them! this is the Law of the Battle of Conquest: thus shall my worship be about my secret house.

10. Get the stele of revealing itself; set it in thy secret temple -- and that temple is already aright disposed -- & it shall be your Kiblah for ever. It shall not fade, but miraculous colour shall come back to it day after day. Close it in locked glass for a proof to the world.

11. This shall be your only proof. I forbid argument. Conquer! That is enough. I will make easy to you the abstruction from the ill-ordered house in the Victorious City. Thou shalt thyself convey it with worship, o prophet, though thou likest it not. Thou shalt have danger & trouble. Ra-Hoor-Khu is with thee. Worship me with fire & blood; worship me with swords & with spears. Let the woman be girt with a sword before me: let blood flow to my name. Trample down the Heathen; be upon them, o warrior, I will give you of their flesh to eat!

12. Sacrifice cattle, little and big: after a child.

13. But not now.

14. Ye shall see that hour, o blessed Beast, and thou the Scarlet Concubine of his desire!

15. Ye shall be sad thereof.

16. Deem not too eagerly to catch the promises; fear not to undergo the curses. Ye, even ye, know not this meaning all.

17. Fear not at all; fear neither men nor Fates, nor gods, nor anything. Money fear not, nor laughter of the folk folly, nor any other power in heaven or upon the earth or under the earth. Nu is your refuge as Hadit your light; and I am the strength, force, vigour, of your arms.

18. Mercy let be off; damn them who pity! Kill and torture; spare not; be upon them!

19. That stele they shall call the Abomination of Desolation; count well its name, & it shall be to you as 718.

20. Why? Because of the fall of Because, that he is not there again.

21. Set up my image in the East: thou shalt buy thee an image which I will show thee, especial, not unlike the one thou knowest. And it shall be suddenly easy for thee to do this.

22. The other images group around me to support me: let all be worshipped, for they shall cluster to exalt me. I am the visible object of worship; the others are secret; for the Beast & his Bride are they: and for the winners of the Ordeal x. What is this? Thou shalt know.

23. For perfume mix meal & honey & thick leavings of red wine: then oil of Abramelin and olive oil, and afterward soften & smooth down with rich fresh blood.

24. The best blood is of the moon, monthly: then the fresh blood of a child, or dropping from the host of heaven: then of enemies; then of the priest or of the worshippers: last of some beast, no matter what.

25. This burn: of this make cakes & eat unto me. This hath also another use; let it be laid before me, and kept thick with perfumes of your orison: it shall become full of beetles as it were and creeping things sacred unto me.

26. These slay, naming your enemies; & they shall fall before you.

27. Also these shall breed lust & power of lust in you at the eating thereof.

28. Also ye shall be strong in war.

29. Moreover, be they long kept, it is better; for they swell with my force. All before me.

30. My altar is of open brass work: burn thereon in silver or gold!

31. There cometh a rich man from the West who shall pour his gold upon thee.

32. From gold forge steel!

33. Be ready to fly or to smite!

34. But your holy place shall be untouched throughout the centuries: though with fire and sword it be burnt down & shattered, yet an invisible house there standeth, and shall stand until the fall of the Great Equinox; when Hrumachis shall arise and the double-wanded one assume my throne and place. Another prophet shall arise, and bring fresh fever from the skies; another woman shall awakethe lust & worship of the Snake; another soul of God and beast shall mingle in the globed priest; another sacrifice shall stain the tomb; another king shall reign; and blessing no longer be poured To the Hawk-headed mystical Lord!

35. The half of the word of Heru-ra-ha, called Hoor-pa-kraat and Ra-Hoor-Khut.

36. Then said the prophet unto the God:

37. I adore thee in the song --
I am the Lord of Thebes, and I
The inspired forth-speaker of Mentu;
For me unveils the veiled sky,
The self-slain Ankh-af-na-khonsu
Whose words are truth. I invoke, I greet
Thy presence, O Ra-Hoor-Khuit!
Unity uttermost showed!
I adore the might of Thy breath,
Supreme and terrible God,
Who makest the gods and death
To tremble before Thee: --
I, I adore thee!
Appear on the throne of Ra!
Open the ways of the Khu!
Lighten the ways of the Ka!
The ways of the Khabs run through
To stir me or still me!
Aum! let it fill me!
38. So that thy light is in me; & its red flame is as a sword in my hand to push thy order. There is a secret door that I shall make to establish thy way in all the quarters, (these are the adorations, as thou hast written), as it is said:

The light is mine; its rays consume
Me: I have made a secret door
Into the House of Ra and Tum,
Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
I am thy Theban, O Mentu,
The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu!
By Bes-na-Maut my breast I beat;
By wise Ta-Nech I weave my spell.
Show thy star-splendour, O Nuit!
Bid me within thine House to dwell,
O winged snake of light, Hadit!
Abide with me, Ra-Hoor-Khuit!
39. All this and a book to say how thou didst come hither and a reproduction of this ink and paper for ever -- for in it is the word secret & not only in the English -- and thy comment upon this the Book of the Law shall be printed beautifully in red ink and black upon beautiful paper made by hand; and to each man and woman that thou meetest, were it but to dine or to drink at them, it is the Law to give. Then they shall chance to abide in this bliss or no; it is no odds. Do this quickly!

40. But the work of the comment? That is easy; and Hadit burning in thy heart shall make swift and secure thy pen.

41. Establish at thy Kaaba a clerk-house: all must be done well and with business way.

42. The ordeals thou shalt oversee thyself, save only the blind ones. Refuse none, but thou shalt know & destroy the traitors. I am Ra-Hoor-Khuit; and I am powerful to protect my servant. Success is thy proof: argue not; convert not; talk not over much! Them that seek to entrap thee, to overthrow thee, them attack without pity or quarter; & destroy them utterly. Swift as a trodden serpent turn and strike! Be thou yet deadlier than he! Drag down their souls to awful torment: laugh at their fear: spit upon them!

43. Let the Scarlet Woman beware! If pity and compassion and tenderness visit her heart; if she leave my work to toy with old sweetnesses; then shall my vengeance be known. I will slay me her child: I will alienate her heart: I will cast her out from men: as a shrinking and despised harlot shall she crawl through dusk wet streets, and die cold and an-hungered.

44. But let her raise herself in pride! Let her follow me in my way! Let her work the work of wickedness! Let her kill her heart! Let her be loud and adulterous! Let her be covered with jewels, and rich garments, and let her be shameless before all men!

45. Then will I lift her to pinnacles of power: then will I breed from her a child mightier than all the kings of the earth. I will fill her with joy: with my force shall she see & strike at the worship of Nu: she shall achieve Hadit.

46. I am the warrior Lord of the Forties: the Eighties cower before me, & are abased. I will bring you to victory & joy: I will be at your arms in battle & ye shall delight to slay. Success is your proof; courage is your armour; go on, go on, in my strength; & ye shall turn not back for any!

47. This book shall be translated into all tongues: but always with the original in the writing of the Beast; for in the chance shape of the letters and their position to one another: in these are mysteries that no Beast shall divine. Let him not seek to try: but one cometh after him, whence I say not, who shall discover the Key of it all. Then this line drawn is a key: then this circle squared in its failure is a key also. And Abrahadabra. It shall be his child & that strangely. Let him not seek after this; for thereby alone can he fall from it.

48. Now this mystery of the letters is done, and I want to go on to the holier place.

49. I am in a secret fourfold word, the blasphemy against all gods of men.

50. Curse them! Curse them! Curse them!

51. With my Hawk's head I peck at the eyes of Jesus as he hangs upon the cross.

52. I flap my wings in the face of Mohammed & blind him.

53. With my claws I tear out the flesh of the Indian and the Buddhist, Mongol and Din.

54. Bahlasti! Ompehda! I spit on your crapulous creeds.

55. Let Mary inviolate be torn upon wheels: for her sake let all chaste women be utterly despised among you!

56. Also for beauty's sake and love's!

57. Despise also all cowards; professional soldiers who dare not fight, but play; all fools despise!

58. But the keen and the proud, the royal and the lofty; ye are brothers!

59. As brothers fight ye!

60. There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.

61. There is an end of the word of the God enthroned in Ra's seat, lightening the girders of the soul.

62. To Me do ye reverence! to me come ye through tribulation of ordeal, which is bliss.

63. The fool readeth this Book of the Law, and its comment; & he understandeth it not.

64. Let him come through the first ordeal, & it will be to him as silver.

65. Through the second, gold.

66. Through the third, stones of precious water.

67. Through the fourth, ultimate sparks of the intimate fire.

68. Yet to all it shall seem beautiful. Its enemies who say not so, are mere liars.

69. There is success.

70. I am the Hawk-Headed Lord of Silence & of Strength; my nemyss shrouds the night-blue sky.

71. Hail! ye twin warriors about the pillars of the world! for your time is nigh at hand.

72. I am the Lord of the Double Wand of Power; the wand of the Force of Coph Nia--but my left hand is empty, for I have crushed an Universe; & nought remains.

73. Paste the sheets from right to left and from top to bottom: then behold!

74. There is a splendour in my name hidden and glorious, as the sun of midnight is ever the son.

75. The ending of the words is the Word Abrahadabra.

The Book of the Law is Written
and Concealed.

Aum. Ha.

THE COMMENT.

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.
The study of this Book is forbidden. It is wise to destroy this copy after the first reading.

Whosoever disregards this does so at his own risk and peril. These are most dire.

Those who discuss the contents of this Book are to be shunned by all, as centres of pestilence.

All questions of the Law are to be decided only by appeal to my writings, each for himself.

There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt.

Love is the law, love under will.
The priest of the princes,
Ankh-f-n-khonsu

Liber Stella Rubeae

A secret ritual of Apep, the Heart of IAO-OAI, delivered unto V.V.V.V.V. for his use in a certain matter of Liber Legis, and written down under the figure LXVI

A.'. A.'.
Publication in Class A.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.'. A.'.

{WEH NOTE: The manner of sacrifice is veiled. This is a ritual of sexual sacrifice, not murder. There are suggestions that the sexual act involved both homosexual and heterosexual acts illegal in England at the time of the writing, hence it is characterized under a metaphor of "child sacrifice". See also the Paris Working and Vision and Voice.}
Apep deifieth Asar.
Let excellent virgins evoke rejoicing, son of Night!
This is the book of the most secret cult of the Ruby Star. It shall be given to none, save to the shameless in deed as in word.
No man shall understand this writing --- it is too subtle for the sons of men.
If the Ruby Star have shed its blood upon thee; if in the season of the moon thou hast invoked by the Iod and the Pe, then mayest thou partake of this most secret sacrament.
One shall instruct another, with no care for the matters of men's thought.
There shall be a fair altar in the midst, extended upon a black stone.
At the head of the altar gold, and twin images in green of the Master.
In the midst a cup of green wine.
At the foot the Star of Ruby.
The altar shall be entirely bare.
First, the ritual of the Flaming Star.
Next, the ritual of the Seal.
Next, the infernal adorations of OAI
Mu pa telai,
Tu wa melai
a, a, a.
Tu fu tulu!
Tu fu tulu
Pa, Sa, Ga.
Qwi Mu telai
Ya Pu melai;
u, u, u.
'Se gu malai;
Pe fu telai,
Fu tu lu.

O chi balae
Wa pa malae: ---
Ut! Ut! Ut!
Ge; fu latrai,
Le fu malai
Kut! Hut! Nut!

Al OAI
Rel moai
Ti --- Ti --- Ti!
Wa la pelai
Tu fu latai
Wi, Ni, Bi.

Also thou shalt excite the wheels with the five wounds and the five wounds.
Then thou shalt excite the wheels with the two and the third in the midst; even Saturn and Jupiter, Sun and Moon, Mars and Venus, and Mercury.
Then the five --- and the sixth.
Also the altar shall fume before the master with incense that hath no smoke.
That which is to be denied shall be denied; that which is to be trampled shall be trampled; that which is to be spat upon shall be spat upon.
These things shall be burnt in the outer fire.
Then again the master shall speak as he will soft words, and with music and what else he will bring forward the Victim.
Also he shall slay a young child upon the altar, and the blood shall cover the altar with perfume as of roses.
Then shall the master appear as He should appear --- in His glory.
He shall stretch himself upon the altar, and awake it into life, and into death.
(For so we conceal that life which is beyond.)
The temple shall be darkened, save for the fire and the lamp of the altar.
There shall he kindle a great fire and a devouring.
Also he shall smite the altar with his scourge, and blood shall flow therefrom.
Also he shall have made roses bloom thereon.
In the end he shall offer up the Vast Sacrifice, at the moment when the God licks up the flame upon the altar.
All these things shalt thou perform strictly, observing the time.
And the Beloved shall abide with Thee.
Thou shalt not disclose the interior world of this rite unto any one: therefore have I written it in symbols that cannot be understood.
I who reveal the ritual am IAO and OAI; the Right and the Averse.
These are alike unto me.
Now the Veil of this operation is called Shame, and the Glory abideth within.
Thou shalt comfort the heart of the secret stone with the warm blood. Thou shalt make a subtle decoction of delight, and the Watchers shall drink thereof.
I, Apep the Serpent, am the heart of IAO. Isis shall await Asar, and I in the midst.
Also the Priestess shall seek another altar, and perform my ceremonies thereon.
There shall be no hymn nor dithyramb in my praise and the praise of the rite, seeing that it is utterly beyond.
Thou shalt assure thyself of the stability of the altar.
In this rite thou shalt be alone.
I will give thee another ceremony whereby many shall rejoice.
Before all let the Oath be taken firmly as thou raisest up the altar from the black earth.
In the words that Thou knowest.
For I also swear unto thee by my body and soul that shall never be parted in sunder that I dwell within thee coiled and ready to spring.
I will give thee the kingdoms of the earth, O thou Who hast mastered the kingdoms of the East and of the West.
I am Apep, O thou slain One. Thou shalt slay thyself upon mine altar: I will have thy blood to drink.
For I am a mighty vampire, and my children shall suck up the wine of the earth which is blood.
Thou shalt replenish thy veins from the chalice of heaven.
Thou shalt be secret, a fear to the world.
Thou shalt be exalted, and none shall see thee; exalted, and none shall suspect thee.
For there are two glories diverse, and thou who hast won the first shalt enjoy the second.
I leap with joy within thee; my head is arisen to strike.
O the lust, the sheer rapture, of the life of the snake in the spine!
Mightier than God or man, I am in them, and pervade them.
Follow out these my words.
Fear nothing.
Fear nothing.
Fear nothing.
For I am nothing, and me thou shalt fear, O my virgin, my prophet within whose bowels I rejoice.
Thou shalt fear with the fear of love: I will overcome thee.
Thou shalt be very nigh to death.
But I will overcome thee; the New Life shall illumine thee with the Light that is beyond the Stars.
Thinkest thou? I, the force that have created all, am not to be despised.
And I will slay thee in my lust.
Thou shalt scream with the joy and the pain and the fear and the love --- so that the Lambda-Omicron-Gamma-Omicron-Sigma of a new God leaps out among the Stars.
There shall be no sound heard but this thy lion-roar of rapture; yea, this thy lion-roar of rapture.

Partial File of the Collection in
"The Sword and the Song"

Liber 67

I flung out of chapel and church
Temple and hall an meeting-room 
Venus' Bower and Osiris' Tomb, 
and left the devil in the lurch, 
While God got lost in the crowd of gods, 
And soul went down in the turbid tide 
Of the metaphysical Lotus-eyed, 
And I was -- anyhow, what's the odds? 
[...] 
Yet by-and-by I hope to weave 
A song of Anti-Christmas Eve 
And First- and Second-Beast-er Day. 
There's one who loves me dearly (vrai!) 
Who yet believes me sprung from Tophet, 
Either the Beast or the False Prophet; 
And by all sorts of monkey tricks 
Adds up my name to Six Six Six. 
Retire, good Gallup! In such strife her 
Superior skill makes you a cipher! 
Ho! I adopt the number. Look 
At the quaint wrapper of this book! 
I will deserve it if I can: It is the number of a Man.

Aleister Crowley, from "Ascension Day" in The Sword of Song

I find some folks think me (for one) 
So great a fool that I disclaim 
Indeed Jehovah's hate for shame 
That man to-day should not be weaned 
Of worshipping so foul a fiend 
In presence of the living Sun, 
And yet replace him oiled and clean 
By the Egyptian Pantheon, 
The same thing by another name. 
Thus when of late Egyptian Gods 
Evoked ecstatic periods 
In verse of mine, you thought I praised 
Or worshipped them -- I stand amazed. 
I merely wished to chant in verse 
Some aspects of the Universe, 
Summed up these subtle forces finely, 
And sang of them (I think divinely) 
In name and form; a fault perhaps -- 
Reviewers are such funny chaps! 
I think that ordinary folk, 
Though, understood the things I spoke. 
For Gods, and devils too, I find 
Are merely modes of my own mind!

Aleister Crowley, from "Pentecost" in The Sword of Song

Liber L X X
The Cross of a Frog

STAUROS BATRACHOU,
the Ceremonies proper to obtaining
a familiar spirit of a Mercurial
nature as described in the
Apocalypse of St. John the Divine
from a frog or toad

STAUROS BATRACHOU

He had crucified a toad
In thee basilisk abode,
Muttering the Runes averse
Mad with many a mocking curse.

0

In this Ritual the Chief Officer representeth a Snake, because of Mercury. (the proper food of snakes is frogs.) The Mystery of Conception is the catching of the frog in silence, and the affirmation of the Will to perform this ceremony.

I

The frog being caught is kept all night in an ark or chest; as it is written, 'Thou didst not abhor the Virgin's Womb'. Presently the frog will begin to leap therein, and this is an omen of good success. Dawn being come, thou shalt approach the chest with an offering of gold, and if available of frankincense and of myrrh. Thou shalt then release the frog from the chest with many acts of homage and place it in apparent liberty. He may, for example, be placed on a quilt of many colours, and covered with a net.

II

Now take a vessel of water and approach the frog, saying: in the Name of the Father + and of the Son + and of the Holy Ghost (here sprinkle water on its head) I baptize thee, O creature of frogs, with water, by the name of Jesus of Nazareth.

III

During the day thou shalt approach the frog whenever convenient, and speak words of worship. And thou shalt ask it to perform such miracles as thou desirest to be done; and they shall be done according to Thy Will. Also thou shalt promise to the frog an elevation fitting for him; and all this while thou shalt be secretly carving a cross whereon to crucify him.

IV

Night being fallen, thou shalt arrest the frog, and accuse him of blasphemy, sedition and so forth, in these words:

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. Lo, Jesus of Nazareth, how thou art taken in my snare. All my life long thou hast plagued me and affronted me. In thy name - with all other free souls in Christendom - I have been tortured in my boyhood; all delights have been forbidden unto me; all that I had has been taken from me, and that which is owed to me they pay not - in thy name. Now, at last, I have thee; the Slave-God is in the power of the Lord of Freedom. Thine hour is come; as I blot thee out from this earth, so surely shall the eclipse pass; and the Light, Life, Love and Liberty be once more the Law of Earth. Give thou place to me, O, Jesus; thine aeon is passed; the Age of Horus is arisen by the Magick of the Master the Beast that is Man; and his number is six hundred and three score and six. Love is the law, love under will.

[A pause.]

I, To Mega Therion [The Great Beast], therefore condemn thee, Jesus the slave-god, to be mocked and spat upon and scourged and then crucified.

V

This sentence is then executed. After the mocking upon the Cross, say thus: Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. I, the Great Beast, slaying thee, Jesus of Nazareth, the slave-god, under the form of this creature of frogs, do bless this creature in the name of the + Father and of the + Son and of the + Holy Ghost. And I assume unto myself and take into my service the elemental spirit of this frog, to be about me as a lying spirit, to go forth upon the earth as a guardian to me in my Work for Man; that men may speak of my piety and of my gentleness and of all virtues and bring to me love and service and all material things soever where I may stand in need. And this shall be its reward, to stand beside me and hear the truth that I utter, the falsehood whereof shall deceive men. Love is the law, love under will.

Then shalt thou stab the frog to the heart with the Dagger of Art, saying: Into my hands I receive thy spirit.

VI

Presently thou shalt take down the frog from the cross and divide it into two parts; the legs shalt thou cook and eat as a sacrament to confirm thy compact with the frog; and the rest shalt thou burn utterly with fire, to consume finally the aeon of the accursed one. So mote it be!

An XII The Adams Cottage
Sun in Cancer Near Bristol
Moon in Aquarius New Hampshire
Therion U.S.A.

LIBER LXXVIII

Publication in Class B.

A DESCRIPTION OF

THE CARDS OF THE TAROT

WITH THEIR ATTRIBUTIONS; INCLUDING A

METHOD OF DIVINATION BY THEIR USE

"All divination resembles an attempt by a man born blind to obtain sight by getting blind drunk."

FRA. P.

{Illustration facing page 145 described:

This is a figure in the shape of an Ankh, with symbols about and upon the form. The loop is a series of four concentric bands like the Rose cross, about a central circle. The central circle is quartered by a vertical Greek cross. This cross has a dot in the center and is marked "Red on white." The ring just about this circle is divided by radial segments into three chambers, with one centered at top; clockwise from top, the chambers are marked: "Bright pale yellow", "Glowing orange scarlet", "Deep blue". The next ring outward is divided into seven chambers, one to bottom, and marked clockwise from 1 o'clock: "Violet", "Indigo", "Blue", "Emerald Green", "Yellow", "Orange", "Red". The next ring outward is divided into twelve chambers, division at top and bottom with six to either side; clockwise from 1 o'clock: "Crimson", "Violet", "Indigo", "Blue", "Green blue", "Emerald Green", "Green Yellowish", "Yellow Greenish", "Amber", "Orange", "Red Orange", "Scarlet". The outer ring is interrupted at the bottom by a segment to match the continuation of the sloping lower sides of the lower upright, the base of this segment is defined not by the ring but by the upper portion of two diagonals drawn from the inner angles of the cross. This five-sided semi-regular figure is further divided within by two crossed lines emanating from the upper corners and extending across the center to the midpoints of the lower sides. In the four chambers resulting are these color abbreviations, clockwise from top: "Blk" (for black), "Russ" (for russet), "Cit'n" (for citrine), "Olive". To either side of this section, on the band itself, is written "white merging into grey". In the top of this outermost ring are these letters in the "Theban Alphabet": u r h --- signifying the "Angel" or "God of Tarot", HRU.

The left arm of the Ankh has from left to right: the symbol of Scorpio (the "M" style, not the Eagle as noted in text), a cup, the words "Deep Blue; Symbols in yellow". The right arm of the Ankh has from left to right: "the words "Red; symbols in Green", a lotus wand, the symbol of Leo.

The basal upright of the Ankh has these in the lower half only, from bottom upward: the symbol of Aquarius, an upright sword in style of the Solomonic Key, the words "Yellow; symbols in Violet.

There are markings and symbols outside the shape of the Ankh: Upper left corner: "L-I-F-E-" above a large "T". Upper right corner: "V-I-T-A-" above a large "A". To left of base: large "O". To right of base: large "P". Below base: "B-I-O-S-" just above the caption "THE COMPLETE SYMBOL OF THE TAROT". The large letters spell "TARO" in Greek capitals ( GR:Tau-Alpha-Rho-Omicron). In the wedges defined by the lower sides of the cross-arms and the base upright sides: to left an upright pentagram with the dot-in-circle Sun symbol in its pentagonal center. To right the same, but with a crescent moon, horns to right.

There is a very small semi-italic note at the lower right, below all else: "["To face p." 145" }

A DESCRIPTION OF

THE CARDS OF THE TAROT

H R U

THE GREAT ANGEL

is
set over the operations of the Secret Wisdom

GR:Alpha chi-alpha-iota Omega

The First and the Last

"WHAT thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the Seven Abodes which be in Aushiah."

"And I saw in the Right Hand of Him that Sate upon the Throne a Book, sealed with Seven Seals."

"Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the Seals thereof?'

S.Y.M.B.O.L.A. Ankh

THE FRONTISPIECE

CONSISTS of a Crux Ansata, which is a form of the Rosy Cross. One arm is scarlet, with the symbols of Leo and the Wand in emerald green.

Another is blue with Eagle and Cup in orange.

A third is yellow, with Aquarius and Dagger in violet.

The last is in the four colours of Malkuth, with Pentacle and Taurus in black.<>

Ring is white, having at the top the Name of the Great Angel P Scorpio h {Theban}<> H U A; below cross-bar are Pentagrams, one enclosing Sol and the other enclosing Luna.

The whole space in the ring contains the Rose of 22 Petals bearing the Names of the 22 Keys<>. In the centre a white circle, and a red cross of four equal arms.

About the whole symbol are the words ---

L.I.F.E. B.I.O.S. V.I.T.A.,

and the letters ---

T. A. P. O., Tarot.

THE TITLES OF THE SYMBOLS

1. THE Ace of Wands is called the Root of the Powers of Fire.
2. The Ace of Cups is called the Root of the Powers of Water.
3. The Ace of Swords is called the Root of the Powers of Air.
4. The Ace of Pentacles is called the Root of the Powers of Earth.
5. The Knight of Wands is "The Lord of the Flame and Lighting: the King of the Spirits of Fire."
6. The Queen of Wands is "The Queen of the Thrones of Flame."
7. The King of Wands is "The Prince of the Chariot of Fire."
8. The Knave of Wands is "The Princess of the Shining Flame: the Rose of the Palace of Fire."
9. The Knight of Cups is "The Lord of the Waves and the Waters: the King of the Hosts of the Sea."
10. The Queen of Cups is "The Queen of the Thrones of the Waters."
11. The King of Cups is "The Prince of the Chariot of the Waters."
12. The Knave of Cups is "The Princess of the Waters: the Lotus of the Palace of the Floods."
13. The Knight of Swords is "The Lord of the Wind and the Breezes: the King of the Spirits of Air."
14. The Queen of Swords is "The Queen of the Thrones of Air."
15. The King of Swords is "The Prince of the Chariot of the Winds."
16. The Knave of Swords is "The Princess of the Rushing Winds: the Lotus of the Palace of Air."
17. The Knight of Pentacles is "The Lord of the Wide and Fertile Land: the King of the Spirits of Earth."
18. The Queen of Pentacles is "The Queen of the Thrones of Earth."
19. The King of Pentacles is "The Prince of the Chariot of Earth."
20. The Knave of Pentacles is "The Princess of the Echoing Hills: the Rose of the Palace of Earth."
NO. CARD LORD OF DECAN IN
21. 5 of Wands . . Strife . . . . Saturn Leo
22. 6 " " . . Victory . . . . Jupiter Leo
23. 7 " " . . Valour . . . . Mars Leo
24. 8 " Pentacles . Prudence . . . . Sun Virgo
25. 9 " " . . Material Gain . . . Venus Virgo
26. 10 " " . . Wealth . . . . Mercury Virgo
27. 2 " Swords . . Peace restored . . . Moon Libra
28. 3 " " . . Sorrow . . . . Saturn Libra
29. 4 " " . . Rest from Strife. . . Jupiter Libra
30. 5 " Cups . . Loss in Pleasure. . . Mars Scorpio

NO. CARD LORD OF DECAN IN
31. 6 " " . . Pleasure . . . . Sun Scorpio
32. 7 " " . . Illusionary Success . . Venus Scorpio
33. 8 " Wands . . Swiftness . . . . Mercury Sagittarius
34. 9 " " . . Great Strength . . . Moon Sagittarius
35. 10 " " . . Oppresion . . . . Saturn Sagittarius
36. 2 " Pentacles . Harmonious Change . . Jupiter Capricorn
37. 3 " " . . Material Works . . . Mars Capricorn
38. 4 " " . . Earthly Power . . . Sun Capricorn
39. 5 " Swords . . Defeat . . . . Venus Aquarius
40. 6 " " . . Earned Success . . . Mercury Aquarius
41. 7 " Swords . . Unstable Effort . . . Moon Aquarius
42. 8 " Cups . . Abandoned Success . . Saturn Pisces
43. 9 " Cups . . Material Happiness . . Jupiter Pisces
44. 10 " " . . Perfected Success . . Mars Pisces
45. 2 " Wands . . Dominion . . . . Mars Aries
46. 3 " " . . Established Strength . . Sun Aries
47. 4 " " . . Perfected Work . . . Venus Aries
48. 5 " Pentacles . Material Trouble. . . Mercury Taurus
49. 6 " " . . Material Success. . . Moon Taurus
50. 7 " " . . Success unfulfilled . . Saturn Taurus
51. 8 " Swords . . Shortened Force . . . Jupiter Gemini
52. 9 " " . . Despair and Cruelty . . Mars Gemini
53. 10 " " . . Ruin . . . . . Sun Gemini
54. 2 " Cups . . Love . . . . . Venus Cancer
55. 3 " " . . Abundance . . . . Mercury Cancer
56. 4 " " . . Blended Pleasure. . . Moon Cancer

THE TWENTY-TWO KEYS OF THE BOOK LETTER ATTRIBUTION

57. 0. The Foolish Man The Spirit of GR:Alpha-iota-theta-eta-rho Aleph Air

58. 1. The Magician The Magus of Bet Mercury

59. 2. The High Priestess The Priestess of the Silver Star Gimel Moon

60. 3. The Empress The Daughter of the Mighty Ones Dalet Venus

61. 4. The Emperor Sun of the Morning, chief among the Mighty Heh Aries

62. 5. The Hierophant The Magus of the Eternal Vau Taurus

63. 6. The Lovers The Children of the Voice; the Oracles of the Mighty Gods Zain Gemini

64. 7. The Chariot The Child of the Powers of the Waters; the Lord of the Triumph of Light Chet Cancer

65. 11. Fortitude The Daughter of the Flaming Sword Tet Leo

66. 9. The Hermit The Magus of the Voice of Power, the Prophet of the Eternal Yod Virgo

67. 10. The Wheel of Fate The Lord of the Forces of Life Koph Jupiter

68. 8. Justice The Daughter of the Lords of Truth: the Ruler of the Balance Lamed Libra

69. 12. The Hanged Man The Spirit of the Mighty Waters Mem Water

70. 13. Death The Child of the Great Transformers: the Lord of the Gates of Death Nun Scorpio

71. 14. Temperance The Daughter of the Reconcilers: the Bringer-Forth of life Samekh Sagittarius

72. 15. The Devil The Lord of the Gates of Matter: the Child of the Forces of Time Ayin Capricorn

73. 16. The Blasted Tower The Lord of the Hosts of the Mighty Peh Mars

74. 17. The Star The Daughter of the Firmament, the dweller between the Waters Tzaddi Aquarius

75. 18. The Moon The Ruler of Flux and Reflux: the Child of the Sons of the Mighty Qof Pisces

76. 19. The Sun The Lord of the Fire of the World Resh Sun

77. 20. The Judgment The Spirit of the Primal Fire Shin Spirit and Fire

78. 21. The Universe The Great One of the Night of Time Taw Earth and Saturn

Such are the Titles of the
Abodes or Atouts of Thooth;
of the
Mansions of the House of
my
FATHER.

The Descriptions of the Seventy-eight Symbols of this Book {"T" in a circle, composed of two white bars}; together with their meanings.

OF THE ACES

FIRST in order and importance are the Four Aces, representing the Force of the Spirit, acting in, and binding together, the Four Scales of each Element: and answering to the Dominion of the Letters of the Name in the Kether of each. They represent the Radical Forces.

The Four Aces are said to be placed on the North Pole of the Universe wherein they revolve, governing its revolution; and ruling as the connecting link between Yetzirah and the Material Plane or Universe.

I

THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF FIRE

"Ace of Wands"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping a heavy club, which has three branches in the colours, and with the sigils, of the scales. The Right-and Left-hand branches end respectively in three Flames, and the Centre one in four Flames: thus yielding Ten: the Number of the Sephiroth. Two-and-twenty leaping Flames, or Yodh, surround it, answering to the Paths; of these, three fall below the Right branch for Aleph, Men, and Shin, seven above the Central branch for the double letters; and between it and that of the Right twelve: six above and six below about the Left-hand branch. The whole is a great and flaming Torch. It symbolizes Force --- strength, rush, vigour, energy, and it governs, according to its nature, various works and questions.

It implies Natural, as opposed to Invoked, Force.

I

THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE WATERS

"Ace of Cups or Chalices"

A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and supporting on the palm thereof a cup, resembling that of the Stolistes.

From it rises a fountain of clear and glistening water: and sprays falling on all sides into clear calm water below, in which grow Lotuses and Water- lilies. The great Letter of the Supernal Mother is traced in the spray of the Fountain.

It symbolizes Fertility --- productiveness, beauty, pleasure, happiness, etc.

III

THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE AIR

"Ace of Swords"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping the hilt of a sword, which supports a White Radiant Celestial Crown; from which depend, on the right, the olive branch of Peace; and on the left, the palm branch of suffering.

Six Vaus fall from its point. It symbolizes "Invoked," as contrasted with Natural Force: for it is the Invocation of the Sword. Raised upward, it invokes the Divine crown of Spiritual Brightness, but reversed it is the Invocation of Demonic Force; and becomes a fearfully evil symbol. It represents, therefore, very great power for good or evil, but invoked; and it also represents whirling Force, and strength through trouble. It is the affirmation of Justice upholding Divine Authority; and it may become the Sword of Wrath, Punishment, and Affliction.

IV

THE ROOT OF THE POWERS OF THE EARTH

"Ace of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, holding a branch of a Rose Tree, whereon is a large Pentacle, formed of Five concentric circles. The Innermost Circle is white, charged with a red Greek Cross. From this White Centre, Twelve Rays, also white, issue: these terminate at the circumference, making the whole something like an Astrological figure of the Heavens.

It is surmounted by a small circle, above which is a large white Maltese Cross, and with two white wings.

Four Crosses and two buds are shewn. The Hand issueth from the Clouds as in the other three cases.

It represents materiality in all senses, good and evil: and is, therefore, in a sense, illusionary: it shows material gain, labour, power, wealth, etc.

THE SIXTEEN COURT, OR ROYAL CARDS

"The Four Kings"

THE Four Kings, or "Figures mounted on steeds," represent the Yodh forces of the Name in each Suit: the Radix, Father and commencement of Material Forces, a force in which all the others are implied, and of which they form the development and completion. A force swift and violent in its action, but whose effect soon passes away, and therefore symbolized by a Figure on a Steed riding swiftly, and clothed in complete Armour.

Therefore is the knowledge of the scale of the King so necessary for the commencement of all magical working.

"The Four Queens"

are seated upon Thrones; representing the Forces of the He of the Name in each suit; the Mother and bringer-forth of Material Forces: a force which develops and realizes that of the King: a force steady and unshaken, but not rapid, though enduring. It is therefore symbolized by a Figure seated upon a Throne: but also clothed in Armour.

"The Four Princes"

These Princes are Figures seated in Chariots, and thus borne forward. They represent the Vau Forces of the Name in each suit: the Mighty Son of the King and Queen, who realizes the influence of both scales of Force. A Prince, the son of a King and Queen, yet a Prince of Princes, and a King of Kings: an Emperor whose effect is at once rapid (though not so swift as that of the Queen) and enduring. It is, therefore, symbolized by a Figure borne in a Chariot, and clothed in Armour. Yet is his power vain and illusionary, unless set in Motion by his Father and Mother. "The Four Princesses"

are the Knaves of the Tarot Pack; The Four Princesses or figures of Amazons, standing firmly of themselves: neither riding upon Horses, nor seated upon Thrones, nor borne in Chariots. They represent the forces of the He final of the Name in each suit, completing the Influences of the other scales: The mighty and potent daughter of a King and Queen: a Princess powerful and terrible: a Queen of Queens --- an Empress --- whose effect combines those of the King, Queen, and Prince, at once violent and permanent; therefore symbolized by a Figure standing firmly by itself, only partially draped, and having but little Armour; yet her power existeth not, save by reason of the others: and then indeed it is mighty and terrible materially, and is the Throne of the Forces of the Spirit.

Woe unto whomsoever shall make war upon her, when thus established!

THE SPHERES OF INFLUENCE OF THE
COURT CARDS OF THE TAROT PACK

THE Princesses rule the Four Parts of the Celestial Heavens which lie around the north Pole, and above the respective Cherubic Signs of the Zodiac, and they form the Thrones of the Powers of the Four Aces.

The twelve cards, the Four Kings, Queens and Princes rule the dominion of the Celestial Heavens, between the realm of the Four Princesses and the Zodiac, as is hereafter shewn. And they, as it were, link together the signs.

V

THE LORD OF THE FLAME AND THE LIGHT-
NING; THE KING OF THE SPIRITS OF FIRE

"Knight"<> "of Wands"

A WINGED Warrior riding upon a black horse with flaming mane and tail: the horse itself is not winged. The rider wears a winged helmet (like the old Scandinavian and Gaulish helmet) with a Rayed Crown, a corslet of scale-mail and buskins of the same, and a flowing scarlet mantle. Above his helmet, upon his curass, and on the shoulder-pieces and buskins, he wears as a crest a winged black horse's head. He grasps a club with flaming ends, somewhat similar to that in the symbol of the Ace of Wands, but not so heavy, and also the sigil of his scale is shown; beneath the rushing feet of his steed are waving flames and fire. He is active --- generous --- fierce --- sudden --- impetuous.

If ill dignified, he is evil-minded --- cruel --- bigoted --- brutal. He rules the celestial heavens from above the Twentieth Degree of Scorpio to the First Two Decans of Sagittarius: and this includes a part of the Constellation Hercules. (Hercules is always represented with a Club.)

Fire of Fire
King of the Salamanders.

VI

THE QUEEN OF THE THRONES OF FLAME

"Queen of Wands"

A CROWNED queen with long red-golden hair, seated upon a Throne, with steady flames beneath. She wears a corslet and buskins of scale-mail, which latter her robe discloses. Her arms are almost bare. On cuirass and buskins are leopard's heads winged, and the same symbol surmounteth her crown. At her side is a couchant leopard on which her hands rest. She bears a long wand with a very heavy conical head. The face is beautiful and resolute.

Adaptability, steady force applied to an object, steady rule, great attractive power, power of command, yet liked notwithstanding. Kind and generous when not opposed.

If ill dignified, obstinate, revengeful, domineering, tyrannical, and apt to turn against another without a cause.

She rules the heavens from above the last Decan of Pisces to above the 20 Degree of Aries: including thus a part of Andromeda.

Water of Fire
Queen of the Salamanders.

VII

THE PRINCE OF THE CHARIOT OF FIRE

"King of Wands"

A KINGLY Figure with a golden, winged crown, seated on a chariot. He has large white wings. One wheel of his chariot is shewn. He wears corslet and buskins of scale armour decorated with a winged lion's head, which symbol also surmounts his crown. His chariot is drawn by a lion. His arms are bare, save for the shoulder-pieces of the corslet, and he bears a torch or fire-wand, somewhat similar to that of the Zelator Adeptus Minor. Beneath the chariot are flames, some waved, some salient.

Swift, strong, hasty; rather violent, yet just and generous; noble and scorning meanness.

If ill dignified --- cruel, intolerant, prejudiced and ill natured. He rules the heavens from above the last Decan of Cancer to the second Decan of Leo; hence he includes most of Leo Minor.

Air of Fire
Prince and Emperor of Salamanders.

VIII

THE PRINCESS OF THE SHINING FLAME;
THE ROSE OF THE PALACE OF FIRE

"Knave of Wands"

A VERY strong and beautiful woman with flowing red-gold hair, attired like an Amazon. Her shoulders, arms, bosom and knees are bare. She wears a short kilt reaching to the knee. Round her waist is a broad belt of scale-mail; narrow at the sides; broader in front and back; and having a winged tiger's head in front. She wears a Corinthian-shaped helmet and crown with a long plume. It also is surmounted by a tiger's head, and the same symbol forms the buckle of her scale-mail buskins. A mantle lined with tiger's skin falls back from her shoulders. Her right hand rests on a small golden or brazen altar ornamented with ram's heads and with Flames of Fire leaping from it. Her left hand leans on a long and heavy club, swelling at the lower end, where the sigil is placed; and it has flames of fire leaping from it the whole way down; but the flames are ascending. This club or torch is much longer than that carried by the King or Queen. Beneath her firmly placed feet are leaping Flames of Fire.

Brilliance, courage, beauty, force, sudden in anger or love, desire of power, enthusiasm, revenge.

If ill dignified, she is superficial, theatrical, cruel, unstable, domineering.

She rules the heavens over one quadrant of the portion around the North Pole.

Earth of Fire
Princess and Empress of the Salamanders.
Throne of the Ace of Wands.

IX

THE LORD OF THE WAVES AND THE WATERS;
THE KING OF THE HOSTS OF THE SEA

"Knight of Cups"

A BEAUTIFUL, winged, youthful Warrior with flying hair, riding upon a white horse, which latter is not winged. His general equipment is similar to that of the Knight of Wands, but upon his helmet, cuirass and buskins is a peacock with opened wings. He holds a cup in his hand, bearing the sigil of the scale. Beneath his horse's feet is the sea. From the cup issues a crab. Graceful, poetic, Venusian, indolent, but enthusiastic if roused.

Ill dignified, he is sensual, idle and untruthful.

He rules the heavens from above 20 Degree of Aquarius to 20 Degree of Pisces, thus including the greater part of Pegasus.

Fire of Water
King of Undines and Nymphs.

X

THE QUEEN OF THE THRONES OF
THE WATERS

"Queen of Cups"

A VERY beautiful fair woman like a crowned Queen, seated upon a throne, beneath which is flowing water wherein Lotuses are seen. Her general dress is similar to that of the Queen of Wands, but upon her crown, cuirass and buskins is seen an Ibis with opened wings, and beside her is the same bird, whereon her hand rests. She holds a cup, wherefrom a crayfish issues. Her face is dreamy. She holds a lotus in the hand upon the Ibis.

She is imaginative, poetic, kind, yet not willing to take much trouble for another. Coquettish, good-natured and underneath a dreamy appearance. Imagination stronger than feeling. Very much affected by other influences, and therefore more dependent upon dignity than most symbols. She rules from 20 Degree Gemini to 20 Degree Cancer.

Water of Water
Queen of Nymphs or Undines.

XI

THE PRINCE OF THE CHARIOT OF
THE WATERS

"King of Cups"

A WINGED Kingly Figure with winged crown seated in a chariot drawn by an eagle. On the wheel is the symbol of a scorpion. The eagle is borne as a crest on his crown, cuirass and buskins. General attire like King of Wands. Beneath his chariot is the calm and stagnant water of a lake. His armour resembles feathers more than scales. He holds in one hand a lotus, and in the other a cup, charged with the sigil of his scale. A serpent issues from the cup, and has its head tending down to the waters of the lake. He is subtle, violent, crafty and artistic; a fierce nature with calm exterior. Powerful for good or evil but more attracted by the evil if allied with apparent Power or Wisdom.

If ill dignified, he is intensely evil and merciless.

He rules from 20 Degree Libra to 20 Degree Scorpio.

Air of Water
Prince and Emperor of Nymphs or Undines.

XII

THE PRINCESS OF THE WATERS; THE LOTUS
OF THE PALACE OF THE FLOODS

"Knave of Cups"

A BEAUTIFUL Amazon-like figure, softer in nature than the Princess of Wands. Her attire is similar. She stands on a sea with foaming spray. Away to her right a Dolphin. She wears as a crest a swan with opening wings. She bears in one hand a lotus, and in the other an open cup from which a turtle issues. Her mantle is lined with swansdown, and is of thin floating material.

Sweetness, poetry, gentleness and kindness. Imaginative, dreamy, at times indolent, yet courageous if roused.

When ill dignified she is selfish and luxurious.

She rules a quadrant of the heavens around Kether.

Earth of Water
Princess and Empress of the Nymphs or Undines
Throne of the Ace of Cups.

XIII

THE LORD OF THE WINDS AND THE BREEZES:
THE KING OF THE SPIRITS OF AIR

"Knight of Swords"

A WINGED Warrior with crowned Winged Helmet, mounted upon a brown steed. His general equipment is as that of the Knight of Wands, but he wears as a crest a winged six-pointed star, similar to those represented on the heads of Castor and Pollux the Dioscuri, the twins Gemini (a part of which constellation is included in his rule). He holds a drawn sword with the sigil of his scale upon its pommel. Beneath his horse's feet are dark-driving stratus clouds.

He is active, clever, subtle, fierce, delicate, courageous, skilful, but inclined to domineer. Also to overvalue small things, unless well dignified.

If ill dignified, deceitful, tyrannical and crafty.

Rules from 20 Degree Taurus to 20 Degree Gemini.

Fire of Air
King of the Sylphs and Sylphides.

XIV

THE QUEEN OF THE THRONES OF AIR

"Queen of Swords"

A GRACEFUL woman with wavy, curling hair, like a Queen seated upon a Throne and crowned. Beneath the Throne are grey cumulus clouds. Her general attire is as that of the Queen of Wands, but she wears as a crest a winged child's head. A drawn sword in one hand, and in the other a large, bearded, newly severed head of a man.

Intensely perceptive, keen observation, subtle, quick and confident: often persevering, accurate in superficial things, graceful, fond of dancing and balancing.

If ill dignified, cruel, sly, deceitful, unreliable, though with a good exterior.

Rules from 20 Degree Virgo to 20 Degree Libra.

Water of Air
Queen of the Sylphs and Sylphides.

XV

THE PRINCE OF THE CHARIOT OF THE WINDS

"King of Swords"

A WINGED King with Winged Crown, seated in a chariot drawn by Arch Fays, represented as winged youths very slightly dressed, with butterfly wings: heads encircled by a fillet with a pentagram thereon: and holding wands surmounted by pentagrams, the same butterfly wings on their feet and fillets. General equipment as the King of Wands: but he bears as a crest a winged angelic head with a pentagram on the brows. Beneath the chariot are grey nimbus clouds. His hair long and waving in serpentine whirls, and whorl figures compose the scales of his armour. A drawn sword in one hand; a sickle in the other. With the sword he rules, with the sickle he slays. Full of ideas and thoughts and designs, distrustful, suspicious, firm in friendship and enmity; careful, observant, slow, over-cautious, symbolizes GR:Alpha and GR:Omega; he slays as fast as he creates.

If ill dignified: harsh, malicious, plotting; obstinate, yet hesitating; unreliable.

Rules from 20 Degree Capricorn to 20 Degree Aquarius.

Air of Air
Prince and Emperor of the Sylphs and Sylphides.

XVI

THE PRINCESS OF THE RUSHING WINDS:
THE LOTUS OF THE PALACE OF AIR

"Knave of Swords"

AN AMAZON figure with waving hair, slighter than the Rose of the Palace of Fire. Her attire is similar. The Feet seem springy, giving the idea of swiftness. Weight changing from one foot to another and body swinging around. She is a mixture of Minerva and Diana: her mantle resembles the AEgis of Minerva. She wears as a crest the head of the Medusa with serpent hair. She holds a sword in one hand; and the other rests upon a small silver altar with grey smoke (no fire) ascending from it. Beneath her feet are white clouds.

Wisdom, strength, acuteness; subtlety in material things: grace and dexterity.

If ill dignified, she is frivolous and cunning.

She rules a quadrant of the heavens around Kether.

Earth of Air
Princess and Empress of the Sylphs and Sylphides.
Throne of the Ace of Wands.

XVII

THE LORD OF THE WIDE AND FERTILE LAND;
THE KING OF THE SPIRITS OF EARTH

"Knight of Pentacles"

A DARK Winged Warrior with winged and crowned helmet: mounted on a light brown horse. Equipment as the Knight of Wands.

The winged head of a stag or antelope as a crest. Beneath the horse's feet is fertile land with ripened corn. In one hand he bears a sceptre surmounted by a hexagram: in the other a Pentacle like that of the Zelator Adeptus Minor.

Unless very well dignified he is heavy, dull, and material. Laborious, clever, and patient in material matters.

If ill dignified, he is avaricious, grasping, dull, jealous; not very courageous, unless assisted by other symbols.

Rules from above 20 Degree of Leo to 20 Degree of Virgo.

Fire of Earth
King of Gnomes.

XVIII

THE QUEEN OF THE THRONES OF EARTH

"Queen of Pentacles"

A WOMAN of beautiful face with dark hair; seated upon a throne, beneath which is dark sandy earth. One side of her face is light, the other dark; and her symbolism is best represented in profile. Her attire is similar to that of the Queen of Wands: but she bears a winged goat's head as a crest. A goat is by her side. In one hand she bears a sceptre surmounted by a cube, and in the other an orb of gold.

She is impetuous, kind; timid, rather charming; great-hearted; intelligent, melancholy; truthful, yet of many moods.

If ill dignified she is undecided, capricious, changeable, foolish.

She rules from 20 Degree Sagittarius to 20 Degree Capricorn.

Water of Earth
The Queen of Gnomes.

XIX

THE PRINCE OF THE CHARIOT OF EARTH

"King of Pentacles"

A WINGED Kingly Figure seated in a chariot drawn by a bull. He bears as a crest the symbol of the head of the winged bull. Beneath the chariot is land, with many flowers. In the one hand he bears an orb of gold held downwards, and in the other a sceptre surmounted by an orb and cross.

Increase of matter. Increases good or evil, solidifies; practically applies things. Steady; reliable.

If ill dignified he is selfish, animal and material: stupid. In either case slow to anger, but furious if roused.

Rules from 20 Degree Aries to 20 Degree Taurus.

Air of Earth
Prince and Emperor of the Gnomes.

XX

PRINCESS OF THE ECHOING HILLS: ROSE OF
THE PALACE OF EARTH

"Knave of Pentacles"

A STRONG and beautiful Amazon figure with rich brown hair, standing on grass or flowers. A grove of trees near her. Her form suggests Hebe, Ceres, and Proserpine. She bears a winged ram's head as a crest: and wears a mantle of sheepskin. In one hand she carries a sceptre with a circular disk: in the other a Pentacle similar to that of the Ace of Pentacles.

She is generous, kind, diligent, benevolent, careful, courageous, persevering, pitiful.

If ill dignified she is wasteful and prodigal. She rules over one quadrant of the heavens around the North Pole of the Ecliptic.

Earth of Earth
Princess and Empress of the Gnomes. Throne of the Ace of Pentacles.

HEREIN ARE RESUMED THE ESPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FOUR COURT CARDS OF THE SUITS


------.--------.------------.-------------------------------.----------.------
SUITS :  CARDS :   CRESTS   :             SYMBOLS             :  HAIR     : EYES
------+--------+------------+-------------------------------+----------+------
  W   :King    :Winged black:Black horse, waving flames,     :Red-gold :Grey
  A   :        :horse's      :club, scarlet cloak             :           :or
  N   :        :head         :                                :           :hazel
  D   :Queen   :Leopard's   :Leopard, steady flames, wand   :Red-gold  :Blue
  S   :        :head,        :with heavy head or end          :           :or
      :        :winged       :                                :           :brown
      :Prince  :Lion's head,:Waved and salient flames, fire :Yellow    :Blue-
      :        :winged       :wand of Zelator Adept           :           :grey
      :Princess:Tiger's head:Tiger, leaping flames, gold     :Red-gold  :Blue
      :        :             :altar, long club, largest at   :          :
      :        :             :bottom                          :           :
------+--------+------------+-------------------------------+----------+------
  C   :King    :Peacock with:White horse, crab issuing from :Fair      :Blue
  U   :        :opened fan  :cup, sea                        :           :
  P   :Queen   :Ibis         :Ibis, crayfish issuing from     :Gold-brown:Blue
  S   :        :             :cup, river                      :           :
      :Prince  :Eagle        :Scorpion, eagle; serpent        :Brown     :Grey
      :        :             :issuing from cup, lake          :           :or
      :        :             :                                :           :brown
      :Princess:Swan         :Dolphin lotus, sea with spray, :Brown      :Blue
      :        :             :turtle from cup                 :           :or
      :        :             :                                :           :brown
------+--------+------------+-------------------------------+----------+------
  S   :King    :Winged      :Winged brown horse, driving    :Dark-brown:Dark
  W   :        :hexagram     :clouds, drawn sword             :           :
  O   :Queen   :Winged      :Head of man severed, cumulus   :Light-    :Grey
  R   :        :child's head:clouds, drawn sword            :brown      :
  D   :Prince  :Winged      :Arch fairies winged, whirling  :Dark      :Dark
  S   :        :Angel's head:hair, nimbi, drawn sword and   :           :
      :        :             :sickle                          :           :
      :Princess:Medusa's    :Silver altar, smoke, clouds,   :Light-    :Blue
      :        :head         :drawn sword                     :brown      :
------+--------+------------+-------------------------------+----------+------
  P   :King    :Winged       :Light-brown horse, ripe         :Dark      :Dark
  E   :        :stag's head :cornland, sceptre with         :           :
  N   :        :             :hexagram, pentacle as Zelator  :          :
  T   :        :             :Adept                           :           :
  A   :Queen   :Winged      :Barren land, fan, light one    :Dark      :Dark
  C   :        :goat's head :side only, sceptre with cube,  :          :
  L   :        :             :orb of gold                     :           :
  E   :Prince  :Winged      :Flowery land, bull, sceptre    :Dark-brown:Dark
  S   :        :bull's head :with orb and cross, orb held   :          :
      :        :             :downwards                       :           :
      :Princess:Winged ram's:Grass, flowers, grove of trees,:Rich brown:Dark
      :        :head         :sceptre with disk, pentacle     :          :
      :        :             :like that in ace                :           :
------.--------.------------.-------------------------------.----------.------
OF THE THIRTY-SIX DECANS

HERE follow the descriptions of the smaller cards of the four suits, thirty-six in number, answering unto the thirty-six Decans of the Zodiac.

Commencing from the sign Aries, the "Central" Decans of each sign follow the order of the Days of the Week. Thus ---

CARD CENTRAL MEANING DAY DECAN OF 3 of Wands Aries Established Strength Sun 6 " P. Taurus Material Success Moon 9 " S. Gemini Despair and Cruelty Mars 3 " C. Cancer Abundance Mercury 6 " W. Leo Victory Jupiter 9 " P. Virgo Material Gain Venus 3 " S. Libra Sorrow Saturn 6 " C. Scorpio Pleasure Sun 9 " W. Sagittarius Great Strength Moon 3 " P. Capricorn Material Works Mars 6 " S. Aquarius Earned Success Mercury 9 " C. Pisces Material Happiness Jupiter Being thus the Four Threes, Sixes, and Nines.

The first and third Decans follow the same order: Sunday beginning the First Decan of Virgo and in the Third Decans of Gemini and Capricorn.

The planets govern respectively Decans with the following Titles ---

Saturn 1. Leo Strife 5 of Wands. 2. Libra Sorrow 3 " Swords. 3. Sagittarius Oppression 10 " Wands. 4. Pisces Abundant Success 8 " Cups. 5. Taurus Success Unfulfilled 7 " Pentacles. Or in Taurus Leo Libra Sagittarius Pisces two wands: 1 each of the other suits.

Jupiter 1. Leo Victory 6 of Wands. 2. Libra Rest from Strife 4 " Swords. 3. Capricorn Harmonious Change 2 " Pentacles. 4. Pisces Material Happiness 9 " Cups. 5. Gemini Shortened Force 8 " Swords. Or in Gemini Leo Libra Capricorn Pisces two swords: 1 each of others. Mars 1. Leo Valour 7 of Wands. 2. Scorpio Loss in Pleasure 5 " Cups. 3. Capricorn Material Works 3 " Pentacles. 4. Pisces Perfected Success 10 " Cups. 5. Aries Dominion 2 " Wands. 6. Gemini Despair and Cruelty 9 " Swords. Or in Aries Gemini Leo Scorpio Capricorn Pisces 2 W. 2 C.: 1 each of others. One more Decan than the others. Sun 1. Virgo Prudence 8 of Pentacles. 2. Scorpio Pleasure 6 " Cups. 3. Capricorn Earthly Power 4 of Pentacles. 4. Aries Established Strength 3 " Wands. 5. Gemini Ruin 10 " Swords. Or in Aries Gemini Virgo Scorpio Capricorn 2 pentacles: 1 each of others. Venus 1. Virgo Material Gain 9 of Pentacles. 2. Scorpio Illusionary Success 7 " Cups. 3. Aquarius Defeat 5 " Swords. 4. Aries Perfected Work 4 " Wands. 5. Cancer Love 2 " Cups. Or in Aries Cancer Virgo Scorpio Aquarius 2 Cups: 1 each of others. Mercury 1. Virgo Wealth 10 of Pentacles. 2. Sagittarius Swiftness 8 " Wands. 3. Aquarius Earned Success 6 " Swords. 4. Taurus Material Trouble 5 " Pentacles. 5. Cancer Abundance 3 " Cups. Or in Taurus Cancer Virgo Sagittarius Aquarius two Pentacles: 1 of each of the others. Moon 1. Libra Peace Restored 2 of Swords. 2. Sagittarius Great Strength 9 " Wands. 3. Aquarius Unstable Effort 7 " Swords. 4. Taurus Material Success 6 " Pentacles. 5. Cancer Blended Pleasure 4 " Cups. Or in Taurus Cancer Libra Sagittarius Aquarius two Swords: 1 of each of the others.

There being thirty-six Decans and seven Planets, it follows that one of the latter must rule over one more Decan than the others. This is the Planet Mars, to which are allotted the last Decan of Pisces, and the first of Aries, because the long cold of the winter requires a great energy to overcome it, and initiate spring.

And the beginning of the Decanates is from the royal Star of Leo, the great Star Cor Leonis: and therefore is the first Decan that of Saturn in Leo.

Here follow the general meanings of the small cards of the suits, as classified under the nine Sephiroth below Kether.

HB:ChKMH The Four Twos symbolize the Powers of the King and Queen just uniting and initiating the Force; but before the Prince and Princess are thoroughly brought into action. Therefore do they generally imply the initiation and fecundation of a thing.

HB:BYNH Realization of action owing to the Prince being produced. The central symbol on each card. Action definitely commenced for good or evil.

HB:ChSD Perfection, realization, completion: making a matter settled and fixed.

HB:GBVRH Opposition, strife and struggle: war; obstacle to the thing in hand. Ultimate success or failure is otherwise shewn.

HB:ThPARTh Definite accomplishment. Thing carried out.

HB:NTzCh Generally shew a force transcending the Material Plane: and is like unto a Crown; which, indeed, is powerful, but requireth one capable of wearing it. The Sevens then shew a possible result: which is dependent on the action then taken. They depend much on the symbols that accompany them.

HB:HVD Solitary success: "i.e." success in the matter for the time being: but not leading to much result apart from the thing itself.

HB:YSVD Very great fundamental force. Executive power, because they restore a firm basis. Powerful for good or evil.

HB:MLKVTh Fixed, culminated, complete Force, whether good or evil. The matter thoroughly and definitely determined. Ultimating Force.

Follow the particular descriptions of each of the thirty-six cards: with full meanings.

Decan-cards are always modified by the other symbols with which they are in contact.

XXI

THE LORD OF STRIFE

"Five of Wands"

TWO White Radiant Angelic Hands issuant per nubes dexter and sinister. They are clasped together in the grip of the First Order, "i.e." the four fingers of each right hand crooked into each other, the thumbs meeting above; and they hold, at the same time, by their centres, five wands or torches which are similar unto the wands of a Zelator Adeptus Minor. One wand is upright in the middle; the others cross each other. Flames leap from the point of junction. Above the middle wand is the sign Saturn, and below is that of Leo: thus representing the Decante. Violent strife and boldness, rashness, cruelty, violence, lust, desire, prodigality and generosity; depending on whether the card is well or ill dignified.

Geburah of HB:Y (Quarrelling and fighting).

This Decan hath its beginning from the Royal Star of Leo: and unto it are allotted the two great Angels of the Schemhamphorash HB:VHVYH and HB:YLYAL.

[The proper meaning of the small cards is to be found by making thorough meditation and harmony between these four symbols of each card. It will be seen that this is how the meanings have been done; but the advanced student can go beyond this rude working.]

XXII

THE LORD OF VICTORY

"Six of Wands"

TWO hands in grip as the last, holding six wands crossed three and three. Flames issue from the point of junction. Above and below are short wands with flames issuing, surmounted respectively by the symbols of Jupiter and Leo, representing the Decan.

Victory after strife: Love: pleasure gained by labour: carefulness, sociability and avoiding of strife, yet victory therein: also insolence, and pride of riches and success, etc. The whole dependent on the dignity.

Tiphareth of HB:Y (Gain).

Hereunto are allotted the great Angels HB:SYTAL and HB:a'aLMYH of the Schemhamphorash.

XXIII

THE LORD OF VALOUR

"Seven of Wands"

TWO hands holding by grip six wands, three crossed. A third hand issuing from a cloud at the lower part of the card, holding an upright wand which passes between the others. Flames leap from the point of junction. Above and below the central wand are the symbols of Mars and Leo, representing the Decan.

Possible victory, depending on the energy and courage exercised; valour; opposition, obstacles and difficulties, yet courage to meet them; quarrelling, ignorance, pretence, and wrangling, and threatening; also victory in small and unimportant things: and influence upon subordinates.

Netzach of HB:Y (Opposition, yet courage).

Therein rule the two great Angels HB:MHShYH and HB:LLHAL of the Schemhamphorash.

XXIV

THE LORD OF PRUDENCE

"Eight of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, issuing from a cloud, and grasping a branch of a rose tree, with four white roses thereon, which touch only the four lowermost Pentacles. No rosebuds even, but only leaves, touch the four uppermost disks. All the Pentacles are similar to that of the Ace, but without the Maltese cross and wings. They are arranged like the geomantic figure Populus. Above and below them are the symbols Sun and Virgo for the Decan.

Over-careful in small things at the expense of great: "Penny wise and pound foolish": gain of ready money in small sums; mean; avaricious; industrious; cultivation of land; hoarding, lacking in enterprise.

Hod of HB:H (Skill: prudence: cunning).

Therein rule those mighty Angels HB:AKAYH and HB:KHThAL.

XXV

THE LORD OF MATERIAL GAIN

"Nine of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding a rose branch with nine white roses, each of which touches a Pentacle. The Pentacles are arranged thus * * * * * * * * * : and there are rosebuds on the branches as well as flowers. Venus and Virgo above and below.

Complete realization of material gain, good, riches; inheritance; covetous; treasuring of goods; and sometimes theft and knavery. The whole according to dignity. Yesod of HB:H (Inheritance, much increase of goods).

Herein those mighty Angels HB:HZYAL and HB:ALDYH have rule and dominion.

XXVI

THE LORD OF WEALTH

"Ten of Pentacles"

AN Angelic Hand, holding by the lower extremity a branch whose roses touch all the Pentacles. No buds, however, are shewn. The symbols of Mercury and Virgo<> are above and below.

The Pentacles are thus arranged * * * * * * * * * *. Completion of material gain and fortune; but nothing beyond: as it were, at the very pinnacle of success. Old age, slothfulness; great wealth, yet sometimes loss in part; heaviness; dullness of mind, yet clever and prosperous in money transactions.

Malkuth of HB:H (Riches and wealth).

Herein are HB:LAVYH and HB:HHa'aYH set over this Decan as Angel Rulers.

XXVII

THE LORD OF PEACE RESTORED

"Two of Swords or Pikes"

Two crossed swords, like the air dagger of a Z.A.M., each held by a White Radiant Angelic Hand. Upon the point where the two cross is a rose of five petals, emitting white rays. At the top and bottom of the card are two small daggers, supporting respectively the symbol {Crescent moon with horns upward} thus, and Libra representing the Decanate.

Contradictory characters in the same nature, strength through suffering; pleasure after pain. Sacrifice and trouble, yet strength arising therefrom, symbolized by the position of the rose, as though the pain itself had brought forth beauty. Arrangement, peace restored; truce; truth and untruth; sorrow and sympathy. Aid to the weak; arrangement; justice, unselfishness; also a tendency to repetition of affronts on being pardoned; injury when meaning well; given to petitions; also a want of tact, and asking question of little moment; talkative.

Chokmah of Vau. Quarrel made up, yet still some tension in relations: actions sometimes selfish, sometimes unselfish.

Herein rule the Great Angels HB:YZLAL and HB:MNHAL.

XXVIII

THE LORD OF SORROW

"Three of Swords or Spears"

THREE White Radiating Angelic Hands, issuing from clouds, and holding three swords upright (as though the central sword had struck apart the two others, which were crossed in the preceding symbol): the central sword cuts asunder the rose of five petals, which in the previous symbol grew at the junction of the swords; its petals are falling, and no white rays issue from it.

Above and below the central sword are the symbols of Saturn and Libra.

Disruption, interruption, separation, quarrelling; sowing of discord and strife, mischief-making, sorrow and tears; yet mirth in Platonic pleasures; singing, faithfulness in promises, honesty in money transactions, selfish and dissipated, yet sometimes generous: deceitful in words and repetitions; the whole according to dignity.

Binah of HB:V (Unhappiness, sorrow, and tears).

Herein rule the Great Angels HB:HRYAL and HB:HQMYH as Lords of the Decan.

XXIX

THE LORD OF REST FROM STRIFE

"Four of Swords"

TWO White Radiating Angelic Hands, each holding two swords; which four cross in the centre. The rose of five petals with white radiations is reinstated on the point of their intersection. Above and below, on the points of two small daggers, are Jupiter<> and Libra, representing the Decanate.

Rest from sorrow; yet after and through it. Peace from and after war. Relaxation of anxiety. Quietness, rest, ease and plenty, yet after struggle. Goods of this life; abundance; modified by dignity as is usual.

Chesed of HB:V (Convalescence, recovery from sickness; change for the better).

Herein do HB:LAVYH and HB:KLYAL bear rule.

XXX

THE LORD OF LOSS IN PLEASURE

"Five of Cups or Chalices"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding lotuses or water-lilies, of which the flowers are falling right and left. Leaves only, and no buds, surmount them. These lotus stems ascend between the cups in the manner of a fountain, but no water flows therefrom; neither is there water in any of the cups, which are somewhat of the shape of the magical instrument of the Zelator Adeptus Minor.

Above and below are the symbols of Mars and Scorpio for the Decan.

Death, or end of pleasure: disappointment, sorrow and loss in those things from which pleasure is expected. Sadness, treachery, deceit; ill-will, detraction; charity and kindness ill requited; all kinds of anxieties and troubles from unsuspected and unexpected sources.

Geburah of HB:H (Disappointment in love, marriage broken off, unkindness of a friend; loss of friendship).

Herein rule HB:LVVYH and HB:PHLYH. XXXI

THE LORD OF PLEASURE

"Six of Chalices"

AN Angelic Hand, as before, holds a group of stems of water-lilies or lotuses, from which six flowers bend, one over each cup. From these flowers a white glistening water flows into the cups as from a fountain, but they are not yet full. Above and below are Sun and Scorpio referring to the Decan.

Commencement of steady increase, gain and pleasure; but commencement only. Also affront, detection, knowledge, and in some instances contention and strife arising from unwarranted self-assertion and vanity. Sometimes thankless and presumptuous; sometimes amiable and patient. According to dignity as usual.

Tiphareth of HB:H (Beginning of wish, happiness, success, or enjoyment).

Therein rule HB:NLKAL and HB:YYYAL.

XXXII

THE LORD OF ILLUSIONARY SUCCESS

"Seven of Chalices"

THE seven cups are arranged as two descending triangles above a point: a hand, as usual, holds lotus stems which arise from the central lower cup. The hand is above this cup and below the middle one. With the exception of the central lower cup, each is overhung by a lotus flower, but no water falls from these into any of the cups, which are all quite empty. Above and below are the symbols of the Decanate Venus and Scorpio.

Possible victory, but neutralized by the supineness of the person: illusionary success, deception in the moment of apparent victory. Lying, error, promises unfulfilled. Drunkenness, wrath, vanity. Lust, fornication, violence against women, selfish dissipation, deception in love and friendship. Often success gained, but not followed up. Modified as usual by dignity.

Netzach of HB:H (Lying, promises unfulfilled; illusion, deception, error; slight success at outset, not retained).

Herein the Angels HB:MLHAL and HB:ChHVYH rule.

XXXIII

THE LORD OF SWIFTNESS

"Eight of Wands or Torches"

FOUR White Radiating Angelic Hands (two proceeding from each side) issuant from clouds; clasped in two pairs in the centre with the grip of the First Order. They hold eight wands, crossed four with four. Flames issue from the point of junction. Surmountin

he small wands with flames issuing down them, and placed in the centre at the top and bottom of the card respectively, are the symbols of Mercury and Sagittarius for the Decan.

Too much force applied too suddenly. Very rapid rush, but quickly passed and expended. Violent, but not lasting. Swiftness, rapidity, courage, boldness, confidence, freedom, warfare, violence; love of open air, field-sports, gardens and meadows. Generous, subtle, eloquent, yet somewhat untrustworthy; rapacious, insolent, oppressive. Theft and robbery. According to dignity.

Hod of HB:Y (Hasty communications and messages; swiftness).

Therein rule the Angels HB:NThHYH and HB:HAAYH.

XXXIV

THE LORD OF GREAT STRENGTH

"Nine of Wands or Torches"

FOUR hands, as in the previous symbol, holding eight wands crossed four and four; but a fifth hand at the foot of the card holds another wand upright, which traverses the point of junction with the others: flames leap herefrom. Above and below are the symbols Moon and Sagittarius.

Tremendous and steady force that cannot be shaken. Herculean strength, yet sometimes scientifically applied. Great success, but with strife and energy. Victory, preceded by apprehension and fear. Health good, and recovery not in doubt. Generous, questioning and curious; fond of external appearances: intractable, obstinate.

Yesod of HB:Y (Strength, power, health, recovery from sickness).

Herein rule the Angels HB:YRThAL and HB:ShAHYH.
XXXV

THE LORD OF OPPRESSION

"Ten of Wands"

FOUR hands holding eight wands crossed as before. A fifth hand holding two wands upright, which traverses the junction of the others. Flames issuant. Saturn and Sagittarius.

Cruel and overbearing force and energy, but applied only to material and selfish ends. Sometimes shows failure in a matter, and the opposition too strong to be controlled; arising from the person's too great selfishness at the beginning. Ill-will, levity, lying, malice, slander, envy, obstinacy; swiftness in evil and deceit, if ill dignified. Also generosity, disinterestedness and self-sacrifice, when well dignified.

Malkuth of HB:V (Cruelty, malice, revenge, injustice).

Therein rule HB:RYYAL and HB:AVMAL.
XXXVI

THE LORD OF HARMONIOUS CHANGE

"Two of Disks or Pentacles"

TWO wheels, disks or pentacles, similar to that of the Ace. They are united by a green-and-gold serpent, bound about them like a figure of 8. It holds its tail in its mouth. A White Radiant Angelic Hand holds the centre of the whole. No roses enter into this card. Above and below are the symbols of Jupiter and Capricorn. It is a revolving symbol.

The harmony of change, alternation of gain and loss; weakness and strength; everchanging occupation; wandering, discontented with any fixed condition of things; now elated, then melancholy; industrious, yet unreliable; fortunate through prudence of management, yet sometimes unaccountably foolish; alternatively talkative and suspicious. Kind, yet wavering and inconsistent. Fortunate in journeying. Argumentative.

Chokmah of HB:H (Pleasant change, visit to friends).

Herein the Angels HB:LKBAL and HB:VShRYH have rule.
XXXVII

THE LORD OF MATERIAL WORKS

"Three of Pentacles"

A WHITE-WINGED Angelic Hand, as before, holding a branch of a rose tree, of which two white rosebuds touch and surmount the topmost Pentacle. The Pentacles are arranged in an equilateral triangle. Above and below the symbols Mars and Capricorn.

Working and constructive force, building up, creation, erection; realization and increase of material things; gain in commercial transactions, rank; increase of substance, influence, cleverness in business, selfishness. Commencement of matters to be established later. Narrow and prejudiced. Keen in matters of gain; sometimes given to seeking after impossibilities.

Binah of HB:H (Business, paid employment, commercial transaction).

Herein are HB:YChVYH and HB:LHChYH Angelic Rulers.
XXXVIII

THE LORD OF EARTHLY POWER

"Four of Pentacles"

A HAND holding a branch of a rose tree, but without flowers or buds, save that in the centre is one fully blown white rose. Pentacles are disposed as on the points of a square; a rose in its centre. Symbols Sun and Capricorn above and below to represent the Decan.

Assured material gain: success, rank, dominion, earthy power, completed but leading to nothing beyond. Prejudicial, covetous, suspicious, careful and orderly, but discontented. Little enterprise or originality. According to dignity as usual.

Chesed of HB:H (Gain of money or influence: a present).

Herein do HB:KVQYH and HB:MNDAL bear rule.
XXXIX

THE LORD OF DEFEAT

"Five of Swords"

TWO Rayed Angelic Hands each holding two swords nearly upright, but falling apart of each other, right and left of the card. A third hand holds a sword upright in the centre as though it had disunited them. The petals of the rose, which in the four had been reinstated in the centre, are torn asunder and falling. Above and below are Venus and Aquarius for Decan.

Contest finished and decided against the person; failure, defeat, anxiety, trouble, poverty, avarice, grieving after gain, laborious, unresting; loss and vileness of nature; malicious, slanderous, lying, spiteful and tale-bearing. A busybody and separator of friends, hating to see peace and love between others. Cruel, yet cowardly, thankless and unreliable. Clever and quick in thought and speech. Feelings of pity easily roused, but unenduring.

Geburah of HB:V (Defeat, loss, malice, spite, slander, evil-speaking).

Herein the Angels HB:ANYAL and HB:Cha'aMYH bear rule.
XL

THE LORD OF EARNED SUCCESS

"Six of Swords"

TWO hands, as before, each holding two swords which cross in the centre. Rose re-established thereon. Mercury and Aquarius above and below, supported on the points of two short daggers or swords.

Success after anxiety and trouble; self-esteem, beauty, conceit, but sometimes modesty therewith; dominance, patience, labour, etc.

Tiphareth of HB:V (Labour, work, journey by water).

Ruled by the Great Angels HB:RHa'aAL and HB:YYVHL.
XLI

THE LORD OF UNSTABLE EFFORT

"Seven of Swords"

TWO Angelic Radiating Hands as before, each holding three swords. A third hand holds up a single sword in the centre. The points of all the swords "just touch" each other, the central sword not altogether dividing them.

The Rose of the previous symbols of this suit is held up by the same hand which holds the central sword: as if the victory were at its disposal. Symbols of Moon and Aquarius.

Partial success. Yielding when victory is within grasp, as if the last reserves of strength were used up. Inclination to lose when on the point of gaining, through not continuing the effort. Love of abundance, fascinated by display, given to compliments, affronts and insolences, and to spy upon others. Inclined to betray confidences, not always intentionally. Rather vacillatory and unreliable.

Netzach of HB:V (Journey by land: in character untrustworthy).

Herein rule the Great Angels HB:HHHAL and HB:Ma'aKAL.
XLII

THE LORD OF ABANDONED SUCCESS

"Eight of Chalices"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, holding a group of stems of lotuses or water-lilies. There are only two flowers shown, which bend over the two central cups, pouring into them a white water which fills them and runs over into the three lowest, which later are not yet filled U U U The three uppermost are quite empty. At the top and U U bottom of the card are symbols Saturn and Pisces. U U U

Temporary success, but without further results. Thing thrown aside as soon as gained. Not lasting, even in the matter in hand. Indolence in success. Journeying from place to place. Misery and repining without cause. Seeking after riches. Instability.

Hod of HB:H (Success abandoned; decline of interest).

The Angels ruling are HB:VVLYH and HB:YLHYH.
XLIII

THE LORD OF MATERIAL HAPPINESS

"Nine of Chalices"

A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand, issuing from a cloud holding lotus or water-lilies, one flower of which overhangs each cup; from it a white water pours. Cups are arranged in three rows of 3. Jupiter and Pisces above and below.

Complete and perfect realization of pleasure and happiness, almost perfect; self-praise, vanity, conceit, much talking of self, yet kind and lovable, and may be self-denying therewith. High-minded, not easily satisfied with small and limited ideas. Apt to be maligned through too much self-assumption. A good and generous, but sometimes foolish nature.

Yesod of HB:H (Complete success, pleasure and happiness, wishes fulfilled). Therein rule the Angels HB:SALYH and HB:a'aRYAL.
XLIV

THE LORD OF PERFECTED SUCCESS

"Ten of Cups or Chalices"

HAND, as usual, holding bunch of water-lilies or lotuses, whose flowers pour a white water into all the cups, which "all run over." The uppermost cup is held sideways by a hand, and pours water into the left-hand upper cup. A single lotus flower surmounts the top cup, and is the source of the water that fills it. Above and below the symbols Mars and Pisces.

Permanent and lasting success and happiness, because inspired from above. Not so sensual as "Lord of Material Happiness," yet almost more truly happy. Pleasure, dissipation, debauchery, quietness, peacemaking. Kindness, pity, generosity, wantonness, waste, etc., according to dignity.

Malkuth of HB:H (Matter settled: complete good fortune).

Herein the Great Angels HB:a'aShLYH and HB:MYHAL rule.

[This is not such a good card as stated. It represents boredom, and quarrelling arising therefrom; disgust springing from too great luxury. In particular it represents drug-habits, the sottish excess of pleasure and the revenge of nature.]
XLV

THE LORD OF DOMINION

"Two of Wands"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic hand, issuing from clouds, and grasping two crossed wands. Flames issue from the point of junction. On two small wands above and below, with flames of five issuing therefrom, are the symbols of Mars and Aries for the Decan.

Strength, domination, harmony of rule and of justice. Boldness, courage, fierceness, shamelessness, revenge, resolution, generous, proud, sensitive, ambitious, refined, restless, turbulent, sagacious withal, yet unforgiving and obstinate.

Chokmah of HB:Y (Influence over others, authority, power, dominion).

Therein the Angels HB:VHVAL and HB:DNYAL bear rule.
XLVI

THE LORD OF ESTABLISHED STRENGTH

"Three of Wands"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand, as before, issuing from clouds and grasping three wands in the centre (two crossed, the third upright). Flames issue from the point of junction. Above and below are the symbols Sun and Aries.

Established force, strength, realization of hope. Completion of labour. Success after struggle. Pride, nobility, wealth, power, conceit. Rude self-assumption and insolence. Generosity, obstinacy, etc.

Binah of HB:Y (Pride, arrogance, self-assertion).

Herein rule the Angels HB:HHShYH and HB:a'aMMYH.

[This card is much better than as described.]

XLVII

THE LORD OF PERFECTED WORK

"Four of Wands"

TWO White Radiating Angelic Hands, as before, issuing from clouds right and left of the card and clasped in the centre with the grip of the First Order, holding four wands or torches crossed. Flames issue from the point of junction. Above and below are two small flaming wands, with the symbols of Venus and Aries representing the Decan.

Perfection or completion of a thing built up with trouble and labour. Rest after labour, subtlety, cleverness, beauty, mirth, success in completion. Reasoning faculty, conclusions drawn from previous knowledge. Unreadiness, unreliable and unsteady through over-anxiety and hurriedness of action. Graceful in manner, at times insincere, etc.

Chesed of HB:Y (Settlement, arrangement, completion).

Herein are HB:NNAAL and HB:NYThHL Angelic rulers.

XLVIII

THE LORD OF MATERIAL TROUBLE

"Five of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand issuing from clouds, and holding a branch of the white rose tree, but from which the roses are falling, and leaving no buds behind. Five Pentacles similar to the Ace. Above and below are Mercury and Taurus.

Loss of money or position. Trouble about material things. Labour, toil, land cultivation; building, knowledge and acuteness of earthly things, poverty, carefulness, kindness; sometimes money regained after severe toil and labour. Unimaginative, harsh, stern, determined, obstinate.

Geburah of HB:H (Loss of profession, loss of money, monetary anxiety).

Herein the angels HB:MBHYH and HB:PNYAL rule.

XLIX

THE LORD OF MATERIAL SUCCESS

"Six of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiant Angelic Hand holding a rose branch with white roses and buds, each of which touches a Pentacle. Pentacles are arranged in two columns of three each * * * * * * * *. Above and below are the symbols Taurus and Moon of the Decan.

Success and gain in material undertakings. Power, influence, rank, nobility, rule over the people. Fortunate, successful, liberal and just.

If ill dignified, may be purse-proud, insolent from excess, or prodigal.

Tiphareth of HB:H (Success in material things, prosperity in business).

Herein rule the Angels HB:NMMYH and HB:YYLAL.

L

THE LORD OF SUCCESS UNFULFILLED

"Seven of Pentacles"

A WHITE Radiating Angelic Hand issuing from a cloud, and holding a white rose branch. Seven Pentacles arranged like the geomantic figure Rubeus. There are only five buds, which overhang, but do not touch the five uppermost Pentacles. Above and below are the Decan symbols, Saturn and Taurus respectively.

Promises of success unfulfilled. (Shewn, as it were, by the fact that the rosebuds do not come to anything.) Loss of apparently promising fortune. Hopes deceived and crushed. Disappointment, misery, slavery, necessity and baseness. A cultivator of land, and yet a loser thereby. Sometimes it denotes slight and isolated gains with no fruits resulting therefrom, and of no further account, though seeming to promise well.

Netzach of HB:H (Unprofitable speculations and employments; little gain for much labour).

Therein HB:HRChAL and HB:MTzRAL are ruling Angels.

LI

THE LORD OF SHORTENED FORCE

"Eight of Swords"

FOUR White Radiant Angelic Hands issuing from clouds, each holding two swords, points upwards; all the points touch near the top of the card. Hands issue, two at each bottom angle of the card. The pose of the other sword symbols is re-established in the centre. Above and below are the Decan symbols Jupiter and Gemini.

Too much force applied to small things: too much attention to detail at the expense of the principal and more important points. When ill dignified, these qualities produce malice, pettiness, and domineering characteristics. Patience in detail of study; great care in some things, counterbalanced by equal disorder in others. Impulsive; equally fond of giving or receiving money or presents; generous, clever, acute, selfish and without strong feeling of affection. Admires wisdom, yet applies it to small and unworthy objects.

Hod of HB:V (Narrow, restricted, petty, a prison).

Therein rule the Angels HB:VMBAL and HB:YHHAL.

LII

THE LORD OF DESPAIR AND CRUELTY

"Nine of Swords"

FOUR Hands, as in the preceding figure, hold eight swords nearly upright, but with the points falling away from each other. A fifth hand holds a ninth sword upright in the centre, as if it had struck them asunder. No rose at all is shewn, as if it were not merely cut asunder, but utterly destroyed. Above and below are the Decan symbols Mars and Gemini.

Despair, cruelty, pitilessness, malice, suffering, want, loss, misery. Burden, oppression, labour, subtlety and craft, dishonesty, lying and slander.

Yet also obedience, faithfulness, patience, unselfishness, etc. According to dignity.

Yesod of HB:V (Illness, suffering, malice, cruelty, pain).

Therein do HB:a'aNVAL and HB:MChYAL bear rule.

LIII

THE LORD OF RUIN

"Ten of Swords"

FOUR hands holding eight swords, as in the preceding symbol; the points falling away from each other. Two hands hold two swords crossed in the centre, as though their junction had disunited the others. No rose, flower or bud, is shewn. Above and below are Sun and Gemini, representing the Decan.

Almost a worse symbol than the Nine of Swords. Undisciplined, warring force, complete disruption and failure. Ruin of all plans and projects. Disdain, insolence and impertinence, yet mirth and jollity therewith. A marplot, loving to overthrow the happiness of others; a repeater of things; given to much unprofitable speech, and of many words. Yet clever, eloquent, etc., according to dignity.

Malkuth of HB:V (Ruin, death, defeat, disruption).

Herein the Angels HB:DMBYH and HB:MNQAL reign.

LIV

THE LORD OF LOVE

"Two of Chalices"

A WHITE Radiant Hand, issuant from the lower part of the card from a cloud, holds lotuses. A lotus flower rises above water, which occupies the lower part of the card rising above the hand. From this flower rises a stem, terminating near the top of the card in another lotus, from which flows a sparkling white water, as from a fountain. Crossed on the stem just beneath are two dolphins, Argent and Or, on to which the water falls, and from which it pours in full streams, like jets of gold and silver, into two cups; which in their turn overflow, flooding the lower part of the card. Venus and Cancer above and below.

Harmony of masculine and feminine united. Harmony, pleasure, mirth, subtlety: but if ill dignified --- folly, dissipation, waste, silly actions.

Chokmah of HB:H (Marriage, love, pleasure).

Therein rule the Angels HB:AVa'aAL and HB:ChBVYH.

LV

THE LORD OF ABUNDANCE

"Three of Chalices"

A WHITE Radiating Hand, as before, holds a group of lotuses or water-lilies, from which two flowers rise on either side of, and overhanging the top cup; pouring into it the white water. Flowers in the same way pour white water into the lower cups. All the cups overflow; the topmost into the two others, and these upon the lower part of the card. Cups are arranged in an erect equilateral triangle. Mercury and Cancer above and below.

Abundance, plenty, success, pleasure, sensuality, passive success, good luck and fortune; love, gladness, kindness, liberality.

Binah of HB:H (Plenty, hospitality, eating and drinking, pleasure, dancing, new clothes, merriment).

Therein the Angels HB:RAHAL and HB:YBMYH are lords.

LVI

THE LORD OF BLENDED PLEASURE

"Four of Chalices"

FOUR cups: the two upper overflowing into the two lower, which do not overflow. An Angelic Hand grasps a branch of lotus, from which ascends a stem bearing one flower at the top of the card, from which the white water flows into the two upper cups. From the centre two leaves pass right and left, making, as it were, a cross between the four cups. Above and below are the symbols Moon and Cancer for the Decan.

Success or pleasure approaching their end. A stationary period in happiness, which may, or may not, continue. It does not mean love and marriage so much as the previous symbol. It is too passive a symbol to represent perfectly complete happiness. Swiftness, hunting and pursuing. Acquisition by contention: injustice sometimes; some drawbacks to pleasure implied.

Chesed of HB:H (Receiving pleasure or kindness from others, but some discomfort therewith).

Therein rule the great Angels HB:HYYAL and HB:MVMYH.

BRIEF MEANING OF TWENTY-TWO KEYS

0. IF the question refers to spiritual matters, the Fool means idea, thought, spirituality, that which endeavours to transcend Earth. But if question is material, it means folly, stupidity, eccentricity, or even mania. 1. Skill, wisdom, adaptation, craft, cunning, or occult wisdom or power. 2. Change, alternation, increase and decrease, fluctuation; whether for good or evil depends on the dignity. 3. Beauty, happiness, pleasure, success. But with very bad dignity it means luxury, dissipation. 4. War, conquest, victory, strife, ambition. 5. Divine wisdom, manifestation, explanation, teaching, occult force voluntarily invoked. 6. Inspiration (passive, mediumistic), motive power, action. 7. Triumph, victory, health (sometimes unstable). 8. Eternal justice. Strength and force, but arrested as in act of judgment. May mean law, trial, etc. 9. Wisdom from on high. Active divine inspiration. Sometimes "unexpected current." 10. Good fortune, happiness (within bounds). Intoxication of success. 11. Courage, strength, fortitude, power passing on to action. Obstinacy. 12. Enforced sacrifice, punishment, loss, fatal and not voluntary, suffering. 13. Time, age, transformation, change involuntary (as opposed to 18, Pisces). Or death, destruction (only latter with special cards). [Specially, a sudden and quite unexpected change.] 14. Combination of forces, realization, action (material effect, good or evil). 15. Materiality, material force, material temptation, obsession. 16. Ambition, fighting, war, courage, or destruction, danger, fall, ruin. 17. Hope, faith, unexpected help. Or dreaminess, deceived hope, etc. 18. Dissatisfaction, voluntary change. Error, lying, falsity, deception. This card is very sensitive to dignity. 19. Glory, gain, riches. With "very" evil cards it means arrogance, display, vanity. 20. Final decision, judgment, sentence, determination of a matter without appeal, "on its plane." 21. The matter itself. Synthesis, world, kingdom. Usually denotes actual subject of question, and therefore depends entirely on accompanying cards. [This table is very unsatisfactory. Each card must be most carefully meditated, taking all its correspondences, and a clear idea formed.] Princes and Queens shew almost always actual men and women connected with the matter. But the Kings (Knights) sometime represent coming or going of a matter, according as they face.

The Princesses shew opinions, thoughts, ideas, either in harmony with or opposed to, the subject.

   A Majority of Wands      .  Energy, opposition, quarrel.
         "        Cups       .   Pleasure, merriment.
         "        Swords     .  Trouble, sadness, sickness, death.
         "        Pentacles  .  Business, money, possessions.
         "        Keys.      .  Strong forces beyond the Querent's control.
         "        Court Cards.  Society, meetings of many persons.
         "        Aces.      .  Strength generally.  Aces are always strong
                                 cards.

   4 Aces    .       .       .  Great power and force.
   3 Aces    .       .       .  Riches, success.
   4 Kings (Knights) .      .  Swiftness, rapidity.
   3   "      "       .      .  Unexpected meetings.  Knights, in general,
                                 shew news.
   4 Queens  .       .       .  Authority, influence.
   3 Queens  .       .       .  Powerful friends.
   4 Princes .       .       .  Meetings with the great.
   3 Princes .       .       .  Rank and honour.
   4 Princesses      .      .   New ideas or plans.
   3 Princesses      .      .   Society of the young.
   4 Tens    .       .       .  Anxiety, responsibility.
   3 Tens    .       .       .  Buying and selling (commerce).
   4 Nines   .       .       .  Added responsibilities.
   3 Nines   .       .       .  Much correspondence.
   4 Eights  .       .       .  Much news.
   3 Eights  .       .       .  Much journeying.
   4 Sevens  .       .       .  Disappointments.
   3 Sevens  .       .       .  Treaties and compacts.
   4 Sixes   .       .       .  Pleasure.
   3 Sixes   .       .       .  Gain, success.
   4 Fives   .       .       .  Order, regularity.
   3 Fives   .       .       .  Quarrels, fights.
   4 Fours   .       .       .  Rest, peace.
   3 Fours   .       .       .  Industry.
   4 Threes  .       .       .  Resolution, determination.
   3 Threes  .       .       .  Deceit.
   4 Twos    .       .       .  Conferences, conversations.
   3 Twos    .       .       .  Reorganization, recommendation.
OF THE DIGNITIES

A CARD is strong or weak, well dignified or ill dignified, according to the cards next to it on either side.

Cards of the same suit on either side strengthen it greatly, for good or evil according to their nature.

Cards of opposite natures on either side weaken it greatly, for either good or evil.

Swords are inimical to Pentacles.

Wands are inimical to Cups.

Swords are friendly with Cups and Wands.

Wands are friendly with Swords and Pentacles.

If a card fall between two other which are mutually contrary, it is not much affected by either.

A METHOD OF DIVINATION BY THE TAROT

[This method is that given to students of the grade Adept Adeptus Minor in the R. R. et A. C. But it has been revised and improved, while certain safeguards have been introduced in order to make its abuse impossible. --- O.M.]

1. THE Significator. Choose a card to represent the Querent, using your knowledge or judgment of his character rather than dwelling on his physical characteristics. 2. Take the cards in your left hand. In the right hand hold the wand over them, and say: I invoke thee, I A O, that thou wilt send H R U, the great Angel that is set over the operations of this Secret Wisdom, to lay his hand invisibly upon these consecrated cards of art, that thereby we may obtain true knowledge of hidden things, to the glory of thine ineffable Name. Amen. 3. Hand the cards to Querent, and bid him think of the question attentively, and cut. 4. Take the cards as cut, and hold as for dealing. "First Operation"

This shows the situation of the Querent at the time when he consults you.

1. The pack being in front of you, cut, and place the top half to the left. 2. Cut each pack again to the left. 3. These four stack represent I H V H, from right to left. 4. Find the Significator. It be in the HB:Y pack, the question refers to work, business, etc.; if in the HB:H pack, to love, marriage, or pleasure; if in the HB:H pack, to money, goods, and such purely material matters. 5. Tell the Querent what he has come for: if wrong, abandon the divination. 6. If right, spread out the pack containing the Significator, face upwards. Count the cards from him, in the direction in which he faces. The counting should include the card from which you count. For Knights, Queens and Princes, count 4. For Princesses, count 7. For Aces, count 11. For small cards, count according to the number. For trumps, count 3 for the elemental trumps; 9 for the planetary trumps; 12 for the Zodiacal trumps. Make a "story" of these cards. This story is that of the beginning of the affair. 7. Pair the cards on either side of the Significator, then those outside them, and so on. Make another "story," which should fill in the details omitted in the first. 8. If this story is not quite accurate, do not be discouraged. Perhaps the Querent himself does not know everything. But the main lines ought to be laid down firmly, with correctness, or the divination should be abandoned. "Second Operation"

Development of the Question

1. Shuffle, invoke suitably, and let Querent cut as before. 2. Deal cards into twelve stacks, for the twelve astrological houses of heaven. 3. Make up your mind in which stack you ought to find the Significator, "e.g." in the seventh house if the question concerns marriage, and so on. 4. Examine this chosen stack. If the Significator is not there, try some cognate house. On a second failure, abandon the divination. 5. Read the stack counting and pairing as before. "Third Operation"

Further Development of the Question

1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 2. Deal cards into twelve stacks for the twelve signs of the Zodiac. 3. Divine the proper stack and proceed as before. "Fourth Operation"

Penultimate Aspects of the Question

1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 2. Find the Significator: set him upon the table; let the thirty-six cards following form a ring round him. 3. Count and pair as before. [Note that the nature of each Decan is shewn by the small card attributed to it, and by the symbols given in Liber DCCLXXVII, cols. 149-151.] "Fifth Operation"

Final Result

1. Shuffle, etc., as before. 2. Deal into ten packs in the form of the Tree of Life. 3. Make up your mind where the Significator should be, as before; but failure does not here necessarily imply that the divination has gone astray. 4. Count and pair as before. [Note that one cannot tell at what part of the divination the present time occurs. Usually Op. 1 seems to indicate the past history of the question; but not always so. Experience will teach. Sometimes a new current of high help may show the moment of consultation. I may add that in material matters this method is extremely valuable. I have been able to work out the most complex problems in minute detail. O.M.]

It is my Will to go to:

LIBER LXXXIV
VEL CHANOKH

A BRIEF ABSTRACT OF THE
SYMBOLIC REPRESENTATION
OF THE

UNIVERSE
DERIVED BY DOCTOR JOHN DEE
THROUGH THE SKRYING OF

SIR EDWARD KELLY

A.'. A.'.
Publication in Class B.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.'. A.'.
Reconstructed from two part article in Equinox I;7, and I;8
By Fra.: A.'. A.'. [Sol in Gemini, An. 88].
With additions from said articles. 


[PREFATORY NOTE BY THE EDITOR

We omit in this preliminary sketch any account of the Tables of Soyga, the 
Heptarchia Mystica, the Book of Enoch, or Liber Logaeth. We hope to be able to deal with these adequately in a subsequent article.]



{Illustration partly represented and partly described:

<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
around the border and in the center grid have been replaced by English letter equivalents.>>

"The" HOLY TABLE.

.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.
:B :O :S :O :N :S :S :L :G :E :N :O :E :E :O :O :F :O :D :G :G :N :B :
:--+--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--+--:
:L :                              /\                              :N :
:--:                             /  \                             :--:
:N :                            /    \                            :A :
:--:                           /      \                           :--:
:N :                          /        \                          :M :
:--:                         /   (1)    \                         :--:
:J :                        /            \                        :S :
:--:                       /              \                       :--:
:A :                      /                \                      :R :
:--:---------------------/------------------\---------------------:--:
:O :\                   /                    \                   /:L :
:--: \                 /                      \                 / :--:
:A :  \      (7)      /                        \      (2)      /  :E :
:--:   \             .--------.--------.--------.             /   :--:
:U :    \           /:        :        :        :\           /    :R :
:--:     \         / :   O    :   J    :   T    : \         /     :--:
:A :      \       /  :--------+--------+--------:  \       /      :F :
:--:       \     /   :        :        :        :   \     /       :--:
:A :        \   /    :   R    :   L    :   U    :    \   /        :T :
:--:         \ /     :--------+--------+--------:     \ /         :--:
:N :          X      :        :        :        :      X          :J :
:--:         / \     :   L    :   R    :   L    :     / \         :--:
:B :        /   \    :--------+--------+--------:    /   \        :O :
:--:  (6)  /     \   :        :        :        :   /     \ (3)   :--:
:B :      /       \  :   O    :   O    :   E    :  /       \      :A :
:--:     /         \ .--------.--------.--------. /         \     :--:
:L :    /           \                            /           \    :G :
:--:   /             \                          /             \   :--:
:M :  /               \                        /               \  :O :
:--: /                 \                      /                 \ :--:
:P :/                   \                    /                   \:E :
:--:------------(5)------\------------------/------(4)------------:--:
:S :                      \                /                      :U :
:--:                       \              /                       :--:
:E :                        \            /                        :L :
:--:                         \          /                         :--:
:A :                          \        /                          :R :
:--:                           \      /                           :--:
:O :                            \    /                            :R :
:--:                             \  /                             :--:
:J :                              \/                              :A :
:--+--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--+--:
:B :A :S :P :P :L :G :G :Z :E :O :O :E :E :O :A :N :L :R :L :L :N :B :
.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.--.
                          "PLATE I"


The letters around the rim are Enochian letters, facing outward in the 
illustration, including the corner letters facing toward the outer point of 
each corner.

The two overlapping equilateral triangles shown in the interior of the 
figure are composed of thin, solid lines and somewhat closer in their bases to the top and bottom of the square than shown here. In the illustration, the 
base angles touch the fourth edge letter from the corner in each instance.

The rectangular grid with enochian letters in the center of the diagram has
been adjusted to align with the edge letters of the original illustration. 
This rectangular grid has its corners overlapping the lines defining the 
hexagram in the original illustration.

There are seven small devices, five squares and two circles, symmetrically 
arranged in the pattern of a seven pointed star with point upward. There is 
no actual seven pointed star drawn. These devices are all oriented to be 
viewed from the center of the figure, their size is about that of three edge 
divisions vertically and horizontally, and their text would be at right angles
to any straight line that might be drawn from the center of the figure. These
devices have been represented by the numbers 1 through 7 in the approximation above. They are separately approximated below, not to scale:

1.

.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.
:2  .   6:        :        :        :        : 6   6  :        :        :
: :-+-:  :   G    :        :   B    : 2 4 6  :        :   B    :        :
:   :    :        :   g    :        :        : L      :        :   B    :
:   :    :  6  6  :        :  2  2  : 6 6 6  :        : r o g  :        :
:6  .   3:        :        :        :        : 6      :        :        :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:8     6 :  +--+  :        :  G G   :  152   :  152   :   52   :   B    :
:        :  6  6  :   G    :        :        :        :        :   .    :
:   6    :        :        :        :        :        :        ::--+--: :
:        :   8    :   6    :   6    :     6  :    6   :  BBB   :   .    :
:6     2 :        :        :        :        :        :        :   B    :
:--------+----.---+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
: \HB:K/ : 6  : o :        : 6 6 6  :   u /  : 6   6  :        :   6    :
:  \ /   :    :   :\  B   /:        :    /   :        :  6  6  :        :
: q X B  :    :   : \    / : 6 6 6  :   B    :   6    :        :8--6--3 :
:  / \   : o  : o :  \  /  :        :  /     :        :    6   :        :
: / q \  :    :   : 7 \/ 9 : 6 6 6  : / 5    : 6   6  :        :   6    :
:--------+----.---+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:  6  6  :6      6: 6   M  :7       :{circle}:   C    :{letter :        :
: ------ :        :        :        :   .    :   L    :lays on :  6 A   :
:  6  6  :6  15  6:        :  /\    :.     . :   M    : back}  :        :
: ------ :6      6:        : /66\   :.  6  . : :-+-:  :        :        :
:  6  6  :    6   :  166   :/____\  :   .    :   .    :   B    : 1556   :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:   .  1 :     3  :  7 .   :   6    :   4    : B B B  :  6  6  :        :
:        :.       :.       :        :   B    :        :        :        :
:  6     :  . B . :    6   :   T    :   B    :  6     :   72   :   6    :
:     .  :        : .      :        :   9    :    6   :        :        :
: .      :  123   :     .  :   6    :        :        :  F     :        :
.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.

{These three have solid {The 2 B 's
line diagonals across all} are horizontal back-to-back}
In #1 above, all dashed lines are solid diagonals and all dotted shapes are
smooth curves or lines. Notes are in {}'s. "6" might be "b".


2. This is a circle with square inside, sides vertical and horizontal. There
is an inverted Isosceles triangle inside the square, base common with upper 
side of square and apex touching midpoint of lower side. The spaces so 
defined contain various symbols and figures, all oriented to be read from the bottom: Left arc to left side square, a circle with dot in center. Top arc 
to top side square, "1" in circle. Right arc to right side square, "2" alone.
Bottom arc to bottom side square, "3" alone. Lower left corner square to left side triangle, "7" with two dots trailing from the base to the lower left 
slightly. Lower right corner square to right side triangle, a circle with "1 
3 2" inside, the "1" above the "3 2" in pyramidal order. Inner top left angle
triangle has three intersecting circles, pyramidal order and all intersections
symmetrical like a "set diagram". Inner top right angle triangle has "LV". 
Inner apex (bottom) angel triangle has "A". In the center space within the 
triangle is a more complex configuration: At a point just below the midpoint 
of the triangle is a circle with dot. From this three spikes issue to bottom 
and symmetrically to upper left and right. Between the two upper spikes is 
"3". Just beneath each upper point are "2" to the left point and "4" to the 
right point. To right of lower point "6". To left of lower point "1".


3.

.-----------------.-----------------.-------------------.
: G         .     : m.   30    q    : q   q   q    l    :
:         :-+-:   :                 :                   :
:   B       :     :      B.    9.   :       B           :
:           .     :                 : o.    .     o  q  :
: 28              : d.   4.         :      g        i   :
:-----------------+-----------------+-------------------:
:{l          30   :   .        .    : L          get    :
:                 : :-+--------+-:  :                   :
:       B         :   .   B    .    :       B           :
:                 :  A----------O   :                   :
: G    33     A   :       9         : h          go     :
:-----------------+-----------------+-------------------:
: 5      {cres.   : m         i d   :  L          30    :
:         moon}   :                 :                   :
:      6       __ :      6          :        6          :
:.-------------\  :                 :                   :
:.- {smooth shape}: d          2.A  :             pp    :
:-----------------+-----------------+-------------------:
:  V          H   : q q     q   Q   :             2 3   :
:                 :                 :                   :
:        6        :       6         :  L        6       :
:                 :                 : {very        d    :
:  9         22   : o g          a  : large "L"}        :
.-----------------.-----------------.-------------------.

{l = a figure like an inverted German sharfes "S"



4.

.---------.---------.---------.---------.---------.---------.
:2        :  6 6    :         :         :         :         :
:         :         :  5 3 7  :   6 B   : T . 13  :  6  ^   :
:   66    : ______  :         :         :         :     9   :
:         : \  o /  :  6 6 6  :   G u   :  6 6 6  :         :
:         :  \  /   :         :         :         :         :
:      2  :   \/    :         :         :         :         :
:---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------:
:         :  o 4    :         :         :         :         :
: v . 4   :         :         : 6 6 6   :   6     :  6 6    :
:         :  B B    : B  1 4  :         :         :         :
:  B      :         :         : P . 3 . :         :         :
:         :         :   a     :         :  G  O   :  C  V   :
:         :         :         :         :         :         :
:---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------:
:         :         :{2 long  :         :         :         :
: B . C   : O . o   :script   : q   q   : q . 9   :     6   :
:         :         :p's, parl:         :         :         :
:   6     :   7     :on their : 6   3   :         : L       :
:         :         :6acks}   :         :  B      :     8   :
:         :  6  6   :   5     :         :         :         :
:---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------:
:         :         :         :d  .     : 7 . 2   :  B   B  :
:go   30  : 9 . 3   :  q  q   :   :     :         :         :
:         :         :         :   :  6  :         : . /\ .  :
:         :  6  6   :    5    :6:-+-:   :         :  /  \   :
:   B     :         :         :   .  A  :  6 B    :         :
:         :         :  6  6   :         :         :  8   3  :
.---------.---------.---------.---------.---------.---------.




5.

.--------.--------.---.----.--------.--------.--------.--------.--------.
:   g    : \ B /  :   :    : \  B   : b o  / : L   o  :  B     :   9    :
:        :  \ /   : B : B  :  \     :    /   :        :        :        :
: D   2  : l   l  :---+----: o \    :  / p   : B . q  :  :     :   6    :
:        :  / \   :   :    : -  \   :  \     :        :        :        :
:   g    : /30 \  : 8 : 2  : 22  \  :d 30\   : q  29  :  82    :   B    :
:--------+--------+---.----+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
: o   p  : +   9  :  _  _  :  _ _   :   6    :  6 6 6 : 6      :  B B   :
:        :{C open :  6  6  :  6 6   :        :        :        :        :
:   B    : down}  :  2  .  :        :        :        :        :  1 2   :
:        :        :        :  9 F   :  2  Q  :   2 Q  : u  Q   :        :
:  98    :   B    :   89   :        :        :        :        :   T    :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+---.----+--------+--------:
:        :   M    :   M    :   M    :   M    : d : B  :   .    : \ B /  :
: B  B   :        :        :        :        :---+----:   : A  :  \ /   :
:        :   2    :     5  :  6 6   : 6.89   :   :    :---+----: B   B  :
:        :        :        :        :        :17 :    : 6 : 3  :  /2\   :
:  6 8   :  6 6   :  6     :  620   :  F     :   :    :   .    : /:-:\  :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:   M    :  6 6   :   6    :  6 6   :   .    :{H on   :        : 6      :
:        :   .    : 9 .    :   T    : 6 : B  : side}  :   N    :        :
: 6  99  : :-+-:  : :-+-:  :  9 6   :---+----:        :        : 6  4   :
:        :   .    :   .    :        :   :    :        :  B 9   :        :
:  L     :  4 6   :   6    :        : 2 : 4  :  B38   :        : 6      :
.--------.--------.--------.--------.---.----.--------.--------.--------.



6. Is a square circumscribed within a circle. There are letters within the 
circle above, below and to either side of the square. In all locations, these
are isolated "I" single letters, four in all.

The square within the circle:

.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
:3    P :A    E :   d   :  l    :       :       :
:  6    :   B   :  6    : 6     : 6 P   : 6 g   :
:4    P :7    o :       :       :       :       :
:-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:
:  l    :   o   :  2    :   l   :   3   :   u   :
: 6     :  6    : 6     :  6    :  6    :  6    :
:       :       :       :       :       :       :
:-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:
:       :   c   :       :   y   :       : 6 6 f :
:  6 6  : 6     : 6  m  : 6     : 6 f   :       :
:       :   3   :       :   8   :       : l     :
:-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:
:3      :6    3 :   8   :   7   :   2   :   5   :
:  6 A  :  6    : B     : B     : B     : B     :
:2.     :8    6 :       :       :       :       :
:-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:
:   6   :   4   :   1   :   9   :  6 6  : B  3  :
: B     : B     : B     : B     :       :       :
:       :       :       :       :  o    : G  2  :
:-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:
: 8  6  :   l   : B  7  :  686  : .66   : .66   :
:       : B   B :       :       :       :       :
: B  B  :  362  : A     :   M   : .96   : 807   :
.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.



7. This is a simple square with the following inside:


 

                       7
                     9 B g
            369   {small circle}
             .    {in larger   } 863
            99    {circle      }
                     L B 2
                       8 }



[Here begins the traditional rendering of Liber Chanokh as given in "Gems from the Equinox" by Isreal Regardie].



The Skryer obtained from certain Angels a series of seven talismans. These,
grouped about the Holy Twelvefold Table, similarly obtained, were part of the furniture of the Holy Table, as shewn in Plate I., opposite.

Other appurtenances of this table will be described hereafter.

II

Other Pantacles were obtained in a similar manner. Here (Plate II.) is the
principal one, which, carved in wax, was placed upon the top of the table. On four others stood the feet of the table.

Note first the Holy Sevenfold Table containing seven Names of God which not even the Angels are able to pronounce.

                                21
                         S A A I-- E M E.
                                 8

                                      30
                         B T Z K A S E .

                         H E I D E N E

                                    30
                         D E I M O L . A

                         I    M E G C B E
                           26

                                  21
                         I L A O I--V N
                                   8
                                      21
                         I H R L A A L--
                                       8


These names are seen written without the heptagram within the heptagon.

By reading these obliquely are obtained names of Angels called ---

(1) Filiae Bonitatis or Filiolae Lucis.
E
Me
Ese
Iana
Akele
Azdobn
Stimcul

(2) Filii Lucis.
I
Ih
Ilr
Dmal
Heeoa
Beigia
Stimcul

[These are given attributions to the Metals of the Planets in this order: 
Sol, Luna, Venus, Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, Saturn.]

(3) Filiae Filiarum Lucis.
S
Ab
Ath
Ized
Ekiei
Madimi
Esemeli

{Illustration facing page 232 described:

Above: "SIGILLVM DEI AEMETH."

Below: "PLATE II."

This is a very complex geometrical drawing with many words, crosses and 
divisions. Here is the general construction: A circle defined by a thick 
black line circumference and a hair line concentric circle inside that. Then 
a circular ring defined by the first hair-line circle and by another hair-line
concentric circle below. Circumscribed within this is a heptagon with point 
to top, composed of straight bands divided up into compartments at juncture 
and between each letter by short cross lines which would, if extended, meet in the common center of the concentric circles. Within the angles of this 
heptagon is an exact fit interlaced heptagram composed of bars which are not interrupted at the angles where they merge but only by the interlacing --- 
right over left. Within this is a heptagonal space and free within that a 
concentric heptagon having no compartments, but one continuous field. Within this is an interlaced right over left upright pentagram, upper and two lower points touching the last heptagon inside and centered. This pentagram is made up of thin bands interrupted only at the interlacings.

Detail: First the markings on the outer band between the two hair-lines, from uppermost right, clockwise:

4  9  7  t  22     6  22  20  14  6     18  26   i     i  l  13   H
I, G, n, g,  h, n, m,  o,  a,  n, a, h,  o,  i, 30, r, 8, G,  r, 12

     y  t  o   e  10  u  15  8   r         o  5   n   o     a   a  6
og, 14, u, 8, 21, b,  A,  I, a, 16, r, A, 10, G, 14, 17, S, 5, 24, w


Next, the seven bands of the larger heptagon, with text in the voids above and below. Note that the cross lines dividing the bands are not perpendicular as in this representation, but radial in alignment from the center of the figure.
All crosses are Maltese.

From upper right, clockwise:

                +
           {monogram of
          "OG" overlaped
       +  in circle}    +
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : Z : l : l : R : H : i : a :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
      S A A I 21 E M E 8
               8       .
               .


    {An "H" with circle
    on line below cross-
+   bar and cross of,    14  +
     Malta above bar.}
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : a : Z : C : a : a : c : b :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
     B T Z K A S E  30
                     .


       {A letter "T" with
  +    serifs and a small  9 +
       circle on riser}
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : p : a : u : p : n : h : r :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
        H E I D E N E



      +        X E   21  +
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : h : d : m : h : l : a : i :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
        D E I M O 30 A
                   .


      {Sigil: Cross of
   +  Malta connects by  +
      a line to top "L"
      and small circle
      over middle of line}
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : k : k : a : a : e : e : e :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
        .
       126 M E G C B E

     {Sigil, "A"
   +  extends bar &   24 +
      base right to
      a cross of Malta}
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : i : i : e : e : l : l : l :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
        I L A O I 21 V N
                   8


       {Sigil: Cross
    +  of Malta with a  +
       sickle issuing
       "C" shaped below
       to terminate in
       arrow head.
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
 : e : e : l : l : M : G : + :
 .---.---.---.---.---.---.---.
         I HI L A A 21
                     8


Next, the interlaced heptagram, with letters from voids in points. All crosses are of Malta. Marks indicating interlace are properly angled in the drawing, not perpendicular as shown here. From top point to the right, following the interlace clockwise twice around, every other point skipped in each line:

                     +
                    Me
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
          +        Heeoa    :   :      +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                    +
                   Iana
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
         +         Beigia   :   :      +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                     +
                  Azdobn
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
         +        Stimcul   :   :     +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                     +
                     El
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
    +      +    +     I   + :   :  +  +  +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                     +
                    Ese
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
  +  +  +           Ih   +  :   :  +  +  +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                     +
                   Akele
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
       +  +  +      Ilr   + :   : +   +   +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------


                     +
                  Stimcul
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------
     +             Dmal     :   :    + +
------------.---.-----------:   :--------------

Next: the sides of the inner heptagon with the text in the heptagonal void 
just above the sides. Clockwise from top.

 + + +     S    + + + +
--------------------------
 + + +     E    + + + +
--------------------------


 + + +    Al    + + + +
--------------------------
 + + +    An    + + + +
--------------------------


 + + +    Ath   + + + +
--------------------------
 + + +    Aue   + + + +
--------------------------


 + + +   Ized   + + + +
--------------------------
 + + +   Liba   + + + +
--------------------------


 + + +   Ekiei  + + + +
--------------------------
 + + +   Rocle  + + + +
--------------------------


 +       Madimi       +
--------------------------
 +      Hagonel       +
--------------------------


 +       Esemeli      +
--------------------------
 +       Ilemese      +
--------------------------


Next, the following text is between the points of the pentagram, starting at 
upper right, the words below are arced in a circle.:

A
EDEKIL {riser on "L" has a small "e" overlayed}


B
ADIMIL {riser on "L" has a small "e" overlayed}


A T
EMELIL {riser on "L" has a small "e" overlayed}


H
OGANL {riser on "L" has a small "e" overlayed}


21
I8
.
ORABIL {riser on "L" has a small "e" overlayed}


Next, the following letters are in the voids formed within the points of the 
pentagram, one to a point and in order from top clockwise: Z, M, S, N, C

Last, the inverted pentagonal void within the pentagram contains the following:

                       VA
                       .
                   LE:-+-:NA
                       +
                       .
                       EL
                            }


(4) Filii Filiorum Lucis.
L (El)
Aw
Ave
Liba
Iocle
Hagone(l)
Ilemese

See all these names in the heptagram of the great seal.

So also there are Seven Great Angels formed thus: take the corner letter S,
then the diagonal next to it AB, then the next diagonal ATH, then the fourth 
diagonal, where is I with 21/8 (which indicates EL), and we have the name ---

SABATHIEL
Continuing the process, we get
ZEDEKIEL
MADIMIEL
SEMELIEL
NOGAHEL
CORABIEL
LEVANAEL
These names will be found in the Pentagram and about it.
These angels are the angels of the Seven Circles of Heaven.
These are but a few of the mysteries of this great seal
SIGILLVM DEI AEMETH

III

The Shew-stone, a crystal which Dee alleged to have been brought to him by 
angels, was then placed upon this table, and the principal result of the
ceremonial skrying of Sir Edward Kelly is the obtaining of the following 
diagrams, Plates III. - VIII.

He symbolized the Fourth-Dimensional Universe in two dimensions as a square
surrounded by 30 concentric circles (the 30 AEthyrs or Aires) whose radii 
increased in a geometrical proportion.

The sides of the square are the four great watch-towers (Plates IV. - VII.)
which are attributed to the elements. There is also a "black cross" (or 
"central tablet" according to the arrangement shewn --- compare the black 
cross bordering the tablets in Plate III. with Plate VIII.)

Plate III. gives the general view.

[The reversed letters which form the word PARAOAN are written in Enochian 
for convenience, as our A and O are not distinguishable reverse from forward.]

Plate IV. gives the complete attribution of the tablet of Air.
The 6th file is called Linea Patris.
The 7th file is called Linea Filii.
The 7th line is called Linea Spiritus Sancti.

This great cross divides the Tablet into four lesser (sub-elemental) 
Tablets, the left-hand top corner being Air of Air, the right-hand top corner 
Water of Air, the left-hand bottom corner Earth of Air, the remaining corner 
Fire of Air.

Each of these lesser Tablets contains a Calvary Cross of ten squares, which
governs it.

Plates V., VI., and VII. are similar for the other elements.

This is the way in which the names are drawn from the great Tablets. 
[Examples taken from Water Tablet.]


{Illustration facing page 234 approximated and described:

The following tablet is completely divided into small squares. These 
squares may appear as rectangles on the display owing to the need to conserve 
width. The tablet is shaded as follows: White: columns 6, 7, 19 & 20. 
"Black" (actually dark gray): column 13. Medium gray: columns 3, 10, 16 and 
23. All remaining columns are Light gray. White (except black in the 13th 
square): rows 7 and 21. "Black" (dark gray) straight across, row 14. Medium 
gray except for white in squares 6, 7, 19 & 20 and black in square 13: 2, 9, 
16 and 23.

The letters are all English except for the following locations which are in
Enochian letters printed backward in the illustration. These Enochian letters
are at: Row 5, square 25; row 9, square 1; row 10, square 1; row 13, square 
25; row 22, square 1; row 23, square 1; row 27, square 20 (indistinguishable 
backward over forward); row 27, squares 20 & 21. Although square 25 of row 27
fits the same criteria, it is not rendered backward.

"THE FOUR GREAT WATCH-TOWERS AND THE BLACK CROSS
WITHIN GENERAL VIEW."

.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.
:r:Z:i:l:a:f:A:y:t:l:p:a:E:T:a:O:A:d:v:p:t:D:n:i:m:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:a:r:d:Z:a:i:d:p:a:L:a:m: :a:a:l:c:o:o:r:o:m:e:b:b:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:c:z:o:n:s:a:r:o:Y:a:u:b:x:T:o:g:c:o:n:z:i:n:l:G:m:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:T:o:i:T:t:x:o:P:a:c:o:C:a:n:h:o:d:D:i:a:l:a:a:o:c:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:S:i:g:a:s:o:m:r:b:x:n:h:r:p:a:t:A:x:i:o:V:s:P:s:N:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:f:m:o:n:d:a:T:d:i:a:r:i:p:S:a:a:i:z:a:a:r:V:r:o:i:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:o:r:o:i:b:A:h:a:o:z:p:i: :m:p:h:a:r:s:l:g:a:i:o:l:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:c:N:a:b:a:V:i:x:g:a:z:d:h:M:a:m:g:l:o:i:n:L:i:r:x:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:O:i:i:i:t:T:p:a:l:O:a:i: :o:l:a:a:D:a:g:a:T:a:p:a:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:A:b:a:m:o:o:o:a:C:u:c:a:C:p:a:L:o:c:i:d:x:P:a:c:n:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:N:a:o:c:O:T:t:n:p:r:a:T:o:n:d:a:z:N:z:i:U:a:a:s:a:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:o:c:a:n:m:a:g:o:t:r:o:i:m:i:i:d:P:o:n:s:d:A:s:p:i:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:S:h:i:a:l:r:a:p:m:z:o:x:a:x:r:i:n:h:t:a:r:n:d:i:L:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:m:o:t:i:b: : :a:T:n:a:n: :n:a:n:T:a: : :b:i:t:o:m:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:b:O:a:Z:a:R:o:p:h:a:R:a:a:d:o:n:p:a:T:d:a:n:v:a:a:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:u:N:n:a:x:o:P:S:o:n:d:n: :o:l:o:a:G:e:o:o:b:a:v:a:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:a:i:g:r:a:n:o:o:m:a:g:g:m:O:P:a:m:n:o:O:G:m:d:n:m:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:o:r:b:m:n:i:n:g:b:e:a:l:o:a:b:l:s:T:e:d:e:c:a:o:p:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:r:s:O:n:i:z:i:r:l:e:m:u:C:s:c:m:i:a:o:n:A:m:l:o:x:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:i:z:i:n:r:C:z:i:a:M:h:l:h:V:a:r:s:G:d:L:b:r:i:a:p:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:M:o:r:d:i:a:l:h:C:t:G:a: :o:i:P:t:e:a:a:p:D:o:c:e:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:R:O:a:n:c:c:h:i:a:s:o:m:p:p:s:u:a:c:n:r:Z:i:r:Z:a:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:A:r:b:i:z:m:i:i:l:p:i:z: :S:i:o:d:a:o:i:n:r:z:f:m:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:O:p:a:n:a:B:a:m:S:m:a:L:r:d:a:l:t:T:d:n:a:d:i:r:e:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:d:O:l:o:P:i:n:i:a:n:b:a:a:d:i:x:o:m:o:n:s:i:o:s:p:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:r:x:p:a:o:c:s:i:z:i:x:p:x:O:o:D:p:z:i:A:p:a:n:l:i:
:-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-:
:a:x:t:i:r:V:a:s:t:r:i:m:e:r:g:o:a:n:n:P:A:C:r:a:r:
.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.
                "PLATE III."}



{Illustration on next page represented and described:

Owing to width limitations of the display, the individual blocks of the 
following diagram have been distorted and appear rectangular. These blocks 
are square in the illustration, having a small central square connected to the
larger square outline by four diagonal line segments, each block giving the 
appearance of a truncated four-sided pyramid. Letters done on Plate III in 
capitals are larger than normal Enochian letters in the original of this 
plate.

The following Enochian characters are reversed in the original 
representation: at row 9, column 1; at row 10, column 1.

<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
have been replaced by English letter equivalents and the various astrological 
symbols have been replaced with the following symbols:

Aries - 1, Taurus - 2, Gemini - 3, Cancer - 4, Leo - 5, Virgo - 6,
Libra - 7, Scorpio - 8 Sagittarius - 9, Capricorn - 0, Aquarius - !
Pisces - @. Moon - #, Mercury - $, Venus - %, Sun - ^, Mars - &,
Jupiter - *, Saturn - (.

Spirit - <, Fire - /, Water - \, Air - [, Earth - ].

To distinguish these replacements from intended uses of the simple numbers and slashes, etc. Please note the following:

All Enochian letters occur in the center of each "square". Any number in the 
lower quarter of a "square" is simply a number, not an astrological sign. 
Diagonal slashes coming in from the corners toward the central section of the squares are not symbols for fire or water, but simply diagonal lines. All 
astrological symbols are placed in the left or right quarters of the squares, 
when elemental symbols are not in those places.>>

   "THE GREAT WATCH-TOWER OF THE EAST, ATTRIBUTED TO AIR."

.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.
:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:R:[:\:Z:\:[:J:[:/:L:/:]:A:]:7:F:#:3:A:*:/:J:/:]:T:]:[:L:\:[:P:[:\:A:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 1 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 1 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:A:[:[:R:[:[:D:[:[:Z:[:[:A:[:7:J:(:3:D:&:[:P:\:[:A:\:[:L:\:[:A:\:[:M:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:C:[:[:Z:[:[:O:[:[:N:[:[:S:[:7:A:*:3:R:^:[:O:\:[:J:\:[:A:\:[:U:\:[:B:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 7 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:T:[:[:O:[:[:J:[:[:T:[:[:T:[:4:X:%:@:O:(:[:P:\:[:A:\:[:C:\:[:O:\:[:C:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 8 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:S:[:[:J:[:[:G:[:[:A:[:[:S:[:4:O:$:@:M:*:[:R:\:[:B:\:[:Z:\:[:N:\:[:H:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 9 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:F:[:[:M:[:[:O:[:[:N:[:[:D:[:4:A:#:@:T:&:[:D:\:[:J:\:[:A:\:[:S:\:[:J:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 10\:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:!:O:%:!:R:$:!:O:#:8:J:&:8:B:^:8:A:%:5:H:(:5:A:*:5:O:&:2:Z:$:2:P:#:2:J:(:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ [ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:C:]:/:N:/:[:A:]:\:B:\:[:A:[:1:U:&:9:J:$:\:X:\:[:G:[:[:A:/:]:Z:]:/:D:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 1 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 1 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:O:]:[:J:]:[:J:]:[:J:]:[:T:]:1:T:^:9:P:#:[:A:/:[:L:/:[:O:/:[:A:/:[:J:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:A:]:[:B:]:[:A:]:[:M:]:[:O:]:1:O:%:9:O:(:[:A:/:[:C:/:[:U:/:[:C:/:[:A:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 7 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:N:]:[:A:]:[:O:]:[:C:]:[:O:]:0:T:*:6:T:^:[:N:/:[:P:/:[:R:/:[:A:/:[:T:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 8 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:O:]:[:C:]:[:A:]:[:N:]:[:M:]:0:A:&:6:G:%:[:O:/:[:T:/:[:R:/:[:O:/:[:J:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 9 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:S:]:[:H:]:[:J:]:[:A:]:[:L:]:0:R:^:6:A:$:[:P:/:[:M:/:[:X:/:[:O:/:[:X:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 10\:/ \ \:/ \ \:
.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.

"PLATE IV."}

{Illustration on next page represented and described:

Owing to width limitations of the display, the individual blocks of the 
following diagram have been distorted and appear rectangular. These blocks are square in the illustration, having a small central square connected to the larger square outline by four diagonal line segments, each block giving the appearance of a truncated four-sided pyramid. Letters done on Plate III in capitals are larger than normal Enochian letters in the original of this plate.

The following Enochian characters were reversed in the original: at row 5, 
column 12; at row 13, column 12. In addition the water symbol was omitted 
twice and has been restored within curly brackets.

<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
have been replaced by English letter equivalents and the various astrological symbols have been replaced with the following symbols:

Aries - 1, Taurus - 2, Gemini - 3, Cancer - 4, Leo - 5, Virgo - 6,
Libra - 7, Scorpio - 8 Sagittarius - 9, Capricorn - 0, Aquarius - !
Pisces - @. Moon - #, Mercury - $, Venus - %, Sun - ^, Mars - &,
Jupiter - *, Saturn - (.

Spirit - <, Fire - /, Water - \, Air - [, Earth - ].

To distinguish these replacements from intended uses of the simple numbers and slashes, etc. Please note the following:

All Enochian letters occur in the center of each "square". Any number in the 
lower quarter of a "square" is simply a number, not an astrological sign. 
Diagonal slashes coming in from the corners toward the central section of the squares are not symbols for fire or water, but simply diagonal lines. All 
astrological symbols are placed in the left or right quarters of the squares, 
when elemental symbols are not in those places.>>

 

   "THE GREAT WATCH-TOWER OF THE WEST, ATTRIBUTED TO WATER."

.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.
:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:T:[:\:A:\:\:O:[:/:A:/:]:D:]:4:U:%:@:P:(:/:T:/:]:D:]:\:N:\:[:J:[:\:M:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 1 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 1 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:A:[:\:A:[:\:L:[:\:C:[:\:O:[:4:O:$:@:R:*:\:O:\:\:M:\:\:E:\:\:B:\:\:B:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:T:[:\:O:[:\:G:[:\:C:[:\:O:[:4:N:#:@:Z:&:\:J:\:\:N:\:\:L:\:\:G:\:\:M:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 7 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:N:[:\:H:[:\:O:[:\:D:[:\:D:[:1:J:&:9:A:$:\:L:\:\:A:\:\:A:\:\:O:\:\:C:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 8 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:P:[:\:A:[:\:T:[:\:A:[:\:X:[:1:J:^:9:O:#:\:U:\:\:S:\:\:P:\:\:S:\:\:N:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 9 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:S:[:\:A:[:\:A:[:\:J:[:\:Z:[:1:A:%:9:A:(:\:R:\:\:U:\:\:R:\:\:O:\:\:J:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 10\:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:8:M:&:8:P:^:8:H:%:5:A:(:5:M:*:5:S:&:2:L:$:2:G:#:2:A:(:!:J:%:!:O:$:!:L:#:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:M:]:/:A:/:\:M:]:\:G:\:[:L:[:0:O:*:6:J:^:\:N:\:[:L:[:\:J:/:]:R:]:/:X:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 1 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 1 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:O:]:\:L:]:\:A:]:\:A:]:\:D:]:0:A:&:6:G:%:\:A:/:\:T:/:\:A:/:\:P:/:\:A:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/{\}\:/{\}\:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:P:]:\:A:]:\:L:]:\:C:]:\:O:]:0:J:^:6:D:$:\:X:/:\:P:/:\:A:/:\:C:/:\:N:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 7 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:N:]:\:D:]:\:A:]:\:Z:]:\:N:]:7:Z:#:3:J:*:\:U:/:\:A:/:\:A:/:\:S:/:\:A:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 8 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:J:]:\:J:]:\:D:]:\:P:]:\:O:]:7:N:(:3:S:&:\:D:/:\:A:/:\:S:/:\:P:/:\:J:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 9 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ / /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:\:X:]:\:R:]:\:J:]:\:N:]:\:H:]:7:T:*:3:A:^:\:R:/:\:N:/:\:D:/:\:J:/:\:L:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 10\:/ \ \:/ \ \:
.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.

"PLATE V."}

{Illustration on next page represented and described:

Owing to width limitations of the display, the individual blocks of the 
following diagram have been distorted and appear rectangular. These blocks are square in the illustration, having a small central square connected to the larger square outline by four diagonal line segments, each block giving the appearance of a truncated four-sided pyramid. Letters done on Plate III in capitals are larger than normal Enochian letters in the original of this plate.

The following Enochian characters are reversed in the original: at row 8, 
column 1; row 9, column 1.

The character in Row 11, Column 7 does not agree with the corresponding 
position in Plate III.

<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
have been replaced by English letter equivalents and the various astrological symbols have been replaced with the following symbols:

Aries - 1, Taurus - 2, Gemini - 3, Cancer - 4, Leo - 5, Virgo - 6,
Libra - 7, Scorpio - 8 Sagittarius - 9, Capricorn - 0, Aquarius - !
Pisces - @. Moon - #, Mercury - $, Venus - %, Sun - ^, Mars - &,
Jupiter - *, Saturn - (.

Spirit - <, Fire - /, Water - \, Air - [, Earth - ].

To distinguish these replacements from intended uses of the simple numbers and slashes, etc. Please note the following:

All Enochian letters occur in the center of each "square". Any number in the 
lower quarter of a "square" is simply a number, not an astrological sign. 
Diagonal slashes coming in from the corners toward the central section of the squares are not symbols for fire or water, but simply diagonal lines. All 
astrological symbols are placed in the left or right quarters of the squares, 
when elemental symbols are not in those places.>>

  "THE GREAT WATCH-TOWER OF THE NORTH, ATTRIBUTED TO EARTH."

.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.
:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:B:[:]:O:]:]:A:[:/:Z:/:\:A:\:0:R:*:6:O:^:[:P:[:]:H:]:]:A:\:/:R:/:\:A:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 1 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 1 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:U:[:]:N:[:]:N:[:]:A:[:]:X:[:0:O:&:6:P:%:]:S:\:]:O:\:]:N:\:]:D:\:]:N:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:A:[:]:J:[:]:G:[:]:R:[:]:A:[:0:N:^:6:O:$:]:O:\:]:M:\:]:A:\:]:G:\:]:G:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:O:[:]:R:[:]:P:[:]:M:[:]:N:[:7:J:#:3:N:*:]:G:\:]:B:\:]:E:\:]:A:\:]:L:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:R:[:]:S:[:]:O:[:]:N:[:]:J:[:7:Z:(:3:J:&:]:R:\:]:L:\:]:E:\:]:M:\:]:U:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:J:[:]:Z:[:]:J:[:]:N:[:]:R:[:7:C:*:3:Z:^:]:J:\:]:A:\:]:M:\:]:H:\:]:L:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:2:M:$:2:O:#:2:R:(:!:D:%:!:J:$:!:A:#:8:L:&:8:H:^:8:C:%:5:T:(:5:M:*:5:A:&:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ ] /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:R:]:[:O:[:]:A:]:\:N:\:/:C:/:4:C:%:@:H:(:]:J:]:[:A:[:]:S:/:\:O:\:/:M:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 1 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 1 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:A:]:]:R:]:]:B:]:]:J:]:]:Z:]:4:M:$:@:J:*:]:J:/:]:L:/:]:P:/:]:J:/:]:Z:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:O:]:]:P:]:]:A:]:]:N:]:]:A:]:4:B:#:@:A:&:]:M:/:]:S:/:]:M:/:]:A:/:]:L:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:D:]:]:O:]:]:L:]:]:O:]:]:P:]:1:J:&:9:N:$:]:J:/:]:A:/:]:N:/:]:B:/:]:A:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:R:]:]:X:]:]:P:]:]:A:]:]:O:]:1:C:^:9:S:#:]:J:/:]:Z:/:]:J:/:]:X:/:]:P:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:A:]:]:X:]:]:T:]:]:J:]:]:R:]:1:U:%:9:A:(:]:S:/:]:T:/:]:R:/:]:J:/:]:M:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:
.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.

"PLATE VI."}
{Illustration on next page represented and described:

Owing to width limitations of the display, the individual blocks of the 
following diagram have been distorted and appear rectangular. These blocks are square in the illustration, having a small central square connected to the larger square outline by four diagonal line segments, each block giving the appearance of a truncated four-sided pyramid. Letters done on Plate III in capitals are larger than normal Enochian letters in the original of this plate.

The following Enochian character is reversed in the original: at row 13, 
column 8.

<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
have been replaced by English letter equivalents and the various astrological symbols have been replaced with the following symbols:

Aries - 1, Taurus - 2, Gemini - 3, Cancer - 4, Leo - 5, Virgo - 6,
Libra - 7, Scorpio - 8 Sagittarius - 9, Capricorn - 0, Aquarius - !
Pisces - @. Moon - #, Mercury - $, Venus - %, Sun - ^, Mars - &,
Jupiter - *, Saturn - (.

Spirit - <, Fire - /, Water - \, Air - [, Earth - ].

To distinguish these replacements from intended uses of the simple numbers and slashes, etc. Please note the following:

All Enochian letters occur in the center of each "square". Any number in the 
lower quarter of a "square" is simply a number, not an astrological sign. 
Diagonal slashes coming in from the corners toward the central section of the squares are not symbols for fire or water, but simply diagonal lines. All 
astrological symbols are placed in the left or right quarters of the squares, 
when elemental symbols are not in those places.>>

 

  "THE GREAT WATCH-TOWER OF THE SOUTH, ATTRIBUTED TO FIRE."

.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.
:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:[:D:[:]:O:]:/:N:[:/:P:/:\:A:\:1:T:&:9:D:$:[:A:[:]:N:]:/:U:\:/:A:/:\:A:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 1 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 1 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:O:[:/:L:[:/:O:[:/:A:[:/:G:[:1:E:^:9:O:#:/:O:\:/:B:\:/:A:\:/:U:\:/:A:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:O:[:/:P:[:/:A:[:/:M:[:/:N:[:1:O:%:9:O:(:/:G:\:/:M:\:/:D:\:/:N:\:/:M:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 7 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:A:[:/:B:[:/:L:[:/:S:[:/:T:[:0:E:*:6:D:^:/:E:\:/:C:\:/:A:\:/:O:\:/:P:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 8 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:S:[:/:C:[:/:M:[:/:J:[:/:A:[:0:O:&:6:N:%:/:A:\:/:M:\:/:L:\:/:O:\:/:X:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 9 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:\ < /:\ < /:\ [ /:\ ] /:\ < /:\ / /:\ \ /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:U:[:/:A:[:/:R:[:/:S:[:/:G:[:0:D:^:6:L:$:/:B:\:/:M:\:/:J:\:/:A:\:/:P:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 10\:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:5:O:(:5:J:*:5:P:&:2:T:$:2:E:#:2:A:(:!:A:%:!:P:$:!:D:#:8:O:&:8:C:^:8:E:%:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:\ < /:\ / /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:]:P:]:[:S:[:/:U:]:\:A:/:\:C:\:7:N:#:3:R:*:]:Z:]:[:J:[:/:R:/:\:Z:\:/:A:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 1 \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 1 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:S:]:/:J:]:/:O:]:/:D:]:/:A:]:7:O:(:3:J:&:/:N:/:/:R:/:/:Z:/:/:F:/:/:M:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 5 \:/ 3 \:/ 6 \:/ 2 \:/ 4 \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:D:]:/:A:]:/:L:]:/:T:]:/:T:]:7:D:*:3:N:^:/:A:/:/:D:/:/:J:/:/:R:/:/:E:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ / \:/ 7 \:/ / \:/ / \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:D:]:/:J:]:/:X:]:/:O:]:/:M:]:4:O:%:@:N:(:/:S:/:/:J:/:/:O:/:/:S:/:/:P:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ \ \:/ \ \:/ 8 \:/ \ \:/ \ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:O:]:/:O:]:/:D:]:/:P:]:/:Z:]:4:J:$:@:A:*:/:P:/:/:A:/:/:N:/:/:L:/:/:J:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ / \:/ / \:/ [ \:/ [ \:/ 9 \:/ [ \:/ [ \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:\ < /:\ < /:\ ] /:\ [ /:\ < /:\ \ /:\ / /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/:R:]:/:G:]:/:O:]:/:A:]:/:N:]:4:N:#:@:P:&:/:A:/:/:C:/:/:R:/:/:A:/:/:R:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ / \:/ / \:/ ] \:/ ] \:/ 10\:/ ] \:/ ] \:
.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.

"PLATE VII."}



<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following illustration, Enochian letters 
have been replaced by English letter equivalents and the elemental symbols 
have been replaced with the following symbols:

Spirit - <, Fire - /, Water - \, Air - [, Earth - ].

To distinguish these replacements from intended uses of the simple slashes, 
etc. Please note the following:

All Enochian letters occur in the center of each "square". Diagonal slashes 
coming in from the corners toward the central section of the squares are not 
symbols for fire or water, but simply diagonal lines.>>

"THE BLACK CROSS, OR TABLE OF UNION,
ATTRIBUTED TO SPIRIT."

.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:<:E:[:[:X:[:\:A:[:]:R:[:/:P:[:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:<:H:\:[:C:\:\:O:\:]:M:\:/:A:\:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:<:N:]:[:A:]:\:N:]:]:T:]:/:A:]:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:
:-----+-----+-----+-----+-----:
:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:\ < /:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:<:B:/:[:J:/:\:T:/:]:O:/:/:M:/:
: .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. : .-. :
:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:/ < \:
.=====.=====.=====.=====.=====.


"PLATE VIII."}


1. Linea Spiritus Sancti gives the Three Holy Names of God of 3, 4, and 5 
letters respectively.
MPH. ARSL. GAIOL.

2. A whorl around the centre of the Tablet gives the name of the Great 
Elemental King, RAAGIOSL [similarly for Air BATAIVAH, for Earth ICZHHCAL, for 
Fire EDLPRNAA].

3. The 3 lines of the central cross of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost give 
the names of 6 seniors. [Thus the 4 tablets hold 24 "elders," as stated in he
Apocalypse.] They are drawn of seven letters, each from the centre to the 
sides of the tablet.

SAIINOV .
: Linea Patris
SOAIZNT .
LAOAZRP .
: Linea Filii
LIGDISA .
SLGAIOL .
: Linea S.S.
LSRAHPM .

These three sets of names rule the whole tablet, and must be invoked before
specializing in the lesser angles of the sub-elements.

4. The Calvary Crosses.
The name upon the cross read vertically is the name which calls forth the 
powers of the lesser angle.

NELAPR (water of water)
OLGOTA (air of water)
MALADI (earth of water)
IAAASD (fire of water)

The name read horizontally on the cross is that which compels the evoked 
force to obedience.

OMEBB (water of water)
AALCO (air of water)
OCAAD (earth of water)
ATAPA (fire of water)

5. Above the bar of the Calvary Cross remain in each case four squares. 
These are allotted to the Kerubim, who must next be invoked.

They are TDIM
DIMT
IMTD
MTDI, being metatheses of these four letters. The initial 
determines the file governed; "e.g." TDIM governs the file which reads 
T(o)ILVR. These angels are most mighty and benevolent. They are ruled by 
names of God formed by prefixing the appropriate letter from the "black-cross"
to their own names.

6. Beneath the bar of the Calvary Cross remain 16 squares not yet 
accounted for. Here, beneath the presidency of the Kerubim, rule four mighty 
and benevolent angels ---
INGM
LAOC
VSSN
RVOI

7. Triliteral names of demons or elementals are to be formed from these 16
squares, uniting the two letters on either side of the upright of the cross 
with a letter chosen from the Central Tablet or black cross in 
accordance with rules which will be given in their due place. Thus GM
IN
OC
LA
et cetera, form bases for these triliteral names.

The following rules explain how the sides of the pyramids of which the 
squares are formed are attributed to the Sephiroth, Planets, Elements, and 
Zodiacal signs.

1. Great Central Cross. This has 36 squares, for the decantes of the 
Zodiac.

On the left side of the Pyramid, Linea Patris has the Cardinal signs, the 
sign of the Element itself at the top, in the order of Tetragrammaton (Fire, 
Water, Air, Earth) going upwards.

Linea Filii has the Common signs in the same order.

Linea S.S. has the Cherubic signs, that of the element on the left, in the 
same order, right to left.

But the order of the decans in each sign is reverse, and thus the planets 
which fill the right-hand side of the Pyramids go in the first two cases 
downwards, and in the third from left to right.

The upper sides of the Pyramids are all attributed to the Element of 
Spirit, the lower sides to the Element of the Tablet.

Each square is also referred to the small card of the Tarot which 
corresponds to the Decan (see 777).

2. Calvary Crosses.

Each has 10 squares.

The upper sides of the Pyramids are uniformly given to Spirit, the 
lower sides to the Sephiroth, in the order shewn. The left-hand sides are 
attributed to the element of the Tablet, the right-hand sides to the 
sub-element of the lesser angle.

3. Kerubic Squares.

The upper sides pertain to the element of the Tablet, the lower sides to 
the sub-element. Right-and left-hand sides in this case correspond, according to a somewhat complex rule which it is unnecessary to give here. The attributions to the Court Cards of the Tarot naturally follow.

4. Lesser Squares.

The upper side of each pyramid is governed by the Kerub standing on the 
pile above it. The lower side is governed by the Kerub also, but in order 
descending as they are from right to left above. [See angle of Air of Water; 
the Kerubs go Earth, Fire, Water, Air (from the square marked D, the fifth 
from the left in the top rank of the Tablet), and downward the lower sides of the squares marked O, D, E, Z go Earth, Fire, Water, Air.]

The left-hand side refers to the element of the Tablet, the right-hand side
to the sub-element of the lesser angle.

5. The Black Cross of Central Tablet.

The upper and lower sides are equally attributed to Spirit.
The left-hand sides to the element of the file, in this order from left to 
right: Spirit, Air, Water, Earth, Fire.
The right-hand sides to the element of the rank in this order: Air, Water, 
Earth, Fire.

IV

Follows Plate IX. the Alphabet in which all this is written. It is the 
Alphabet of the Angelic Language. The invocations which we possess in 
that tongue follow in their due place.

[It is called also Enochian, as these angels claimed to be those which 
conversed with the "patriarch Enoch" of Jewish fable.]

{Illustration facing page 238 approximated:

The illustration is a simple table of Enochian letters in large size above 
smaller script English letters. The words "ENOCHIAN" and "ALPHABET" are enclosed in ornamental frames evocative of wood carvings. These are each composed of a rectangular sign board, with a hair line rectangle within and the word of the sign in that in Half-Uncial capitals. The sign board carries semicircular excrescences above and below with carved demi fans of seven blades. At the ends of each board there are wedges presented with large end to the outside and the point end truncated to the board. These wedges have quarter fans of four blades.


<<Note to the ASCII version: In the following diagram, the upper
letter in each section was originally in Enochian. Regrettably,
it is not possible to depict this accurately here. Conversion
has been made to English equivalents, however pointless it may
appear.>>

.=================.========.=================.
.=================.========.=================.
:                 :        :                 :
:    ENOCHIAN     :   A    :    ALPHABET     :
:                 :        :                 :
:                 :   A    :                 :
:--------.--------+--------+--------.--------:
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   B    :   C    :   D    :   E    :   F    :
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   B    :   C    :   D    :   E    :   F    :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   G    :   H    :   J    :   L    :   M    :
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   G    :   H    :   J    :   L    :   M    :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   N    :   O    :   P    :   Q    :   R    :
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   N    :   O    :   P    :   Q    :   R    :
:--------+--------+--------+--------+--------:
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   S    :   T    :   U    :   X    :   Z    :
:        :        :        :        :        :
:   S    :   T    :   U    :   X    :   Z    :
.========.========.========.========.========.


"PLATE IX."}


V.
The Thirty Aethyrs or Aires and their divisions and angels are as follows 
[We omit for the present consideration of the parts of the earth to which they are stated to correspond, and the question of the attributions to the cardinal points and the Tribes of Israel. These are duly tabulated in Dee's "Liber Scientiae, Auxilii, et Victoriae Terrestris."]: ---

NAME OF AIRE. NAMES OF GOVERNORS. NUMBERS OF IN ALL
SERVITORS.
NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
 1.  LIL.      OCCODON    .     .     .   7209.
               PASCOMB    .     .     .   2360:        14,931
               VALGARS    .     .     .   5362.

 2.  ARN.      DOAGNIS    .     .     .   3636.
               PACASNA    .     .     .   2362:        15,960
               DIALIVA    .     .     .   8962.

 3.  ZOM.      SAMAPHA    .     .     .   4400.
               VIROOLI    .     .     .   3660:        17,296
               ANDISPI    .     .     .   9236.

 4.  PAZ.      THOTANF    .     .     .   2360.
               AXZIARG    .     .     .   3000:        11,660
               POTHNIR    .     .     .   6300.

 5.  LIT.      LAZDIXI    .     .     .   8630.
               NOCAMAL    .     .     .   2306:        16,736
               TIARPAX    .     .     .   5802.

NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
 6.  MAZ.      SAXTOMP    .     .     .   3620.
               VAVAAMP    .     .     .   9200:        20,040
               ZIRZIRD    .     .     .   7220.

 7.  DEO.      OBMACAS    .     .     .   6363.
               GENADOL    .     .     .   7706:        20,389
               ASPIAON    .     .     .   6320.

 8.  ZID.      ZAMFRES    .     .     .   4362.
               TODNAON    .     .     .   7236:        13,900
               PRISTAC    .     .     .   2302.

 9.  ZIP.      ODDIORG    .     .     .   9996.
               CRALPIR    .     .     .   3620:        17,846
               DOANZIN    .     .     .   4230.

10.  ZAX.      LEXARPH    .     .     .   8880.
               COMANAN    .     .     .   1230:        11,727
               TABITOM    .     .     .   1617.


[Note that these 3 names come from the black cross, with the addition of an
L. This L is one of the 8 reversed letters in the four watchtowers, the other
seven forming the word PARAOAN, "q.v. infra."]

NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
11.  ICH.      MOLPAND    .     .     .   3472.
               VANARDA    .     .     .   7236:        15,942
               PONODOL    .     .     .   5234.

12.  LOE.      TAPAMAL    .     .     .   2658.
               GEDOONS    .     .     .   7772:        13,821
               AMBRIAL    .     .     .   3391.

NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
13.  ZIM.      GECAOND    .     .     .   8111.
               LAPARIN    .     .     .   3360:        15,684
               DOCEPAX    .     .     .   4213.

14.  VTA.      TEDOOND    .     .     .   2673.
               VIVIPOS    .     .     .   9236:        20,139
               OOANAMB    .     .     .   8230.

15.  OXO.      TAHANDO    .     .     .   1367.
               NOCIABI    .     .     .   1367:          4620
               TASTOXO    .     .     .   1886.

16.  LEA.      COCARPT    .     .     .   9920.
               LANACON    .     .     .   9230:        28,390
               SOCHIAL    .     .     .   9240.

17.  TAN.      SIGMORF    .     .     .   7623.
               AYDROPT    .     .     .   7132:        17,386
               TOCARZI    .     .     .   2634.

18.  ZEN.      NABAOMI    .     .     .   2346.
               ZAFASAI    .     .     .   7689:        19,311
               YALPAMB    .     .     .   9276.

19.  POP.      TORZOXI    .     .     .   6236.
               ABAIOND    .     .     .   6732:        15,356
               OMAGRAP    .     .     .   2388.

20.  KHR.      ZILDRON    .     .     .   3626.
               PARZIBA    .     .     .   7629:        14,889
               TOTOCAN    .     .     .   3634.

21.  ASP.      CHIRSPA    .     .     .   5536.
               TOANTOM    .     .     .   5635:        16,929
               VIXPALG    .     .     .   5658. 

NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
22.  LIN.      OZIDAIA    .     .     .   2232.
               PARAOAN    .     .     .   2326:          6925
               CALZIRG    .     .     .   2367.

23.  TOR.      RONOAMB    .     .     .   7320.
               ONIZIMP    .     .     .   7262:        21,915
               ZAXANIN    .     .     .   7333.

24.  NIA.      ORCAMIR    .     .     .   8200.
               CHIALPS    .     .     .   8360:        24,796
               SOAGEEL    .     .     .   8236.

25.  VTI.      MIRZIND    .     .     .   5632.
               OBUAORS    .     .     .   6333:        18,201
               RANGLAM    .     .     .   6236.

26.  DES.      POPHAND    .     .     .   9232.
               NIGRANA    .     .     .   3620:        18,489
               BAZCHIM    .     .     .   5637.

27.  ZAA.      SAZIAMI    .     .     .   7220.
               MATHVLA    .     .     .   7560:        22,043
               ORPAMB     .     .     .   7263.

28.  BAG.      LABNIXP    .     .     .   2360.
               FOCISNI    .     .     .   7236:        18,066
               OXLOPAR    .     .     .   8200.

29.  RII.      VASTRIM    .     .     .   9632.
               ODRAXTI    .     .     .   4236:        21,503
               GOMZIAM    .     .     .   7635.

NAME OF AIRE.     NAMES OF GOVERNORS.   NUMBERS OF     IN ALL
                                        SERVITORS.
30.  TEX.      TAONGLA    .     .     .   4632.
               GEMNIMB    .     .     .   9636:        27,532
               ADVORPT    .     .     .   7632:
               DOZINAL    .     .     .   5632.


Plate X shows us the names of these governors in the four Watch-Towers. 
Compare with Plate III.
Note that the sigil of each Governor is unique; the four sigils at the 
corners of Plate X. without the great square are those of the four great 
Elemental Kings: ---
Air Tahaoeloj.
Water Thahebyobeeatan.
Earth Thahaaotahe.
Fire Ohooohaatan.


{Illustration opposite page 243 approximated:

In order to display, the illustration has been cut into two vertically. 
The center column has been copied to the right of the first part AND to the 
left of the second part --- this row of arrows is only present once in the 
original illustration. All broken lines should be connected. Each sigil is 
unbroken in the original, except the arrow sigils marked 30 and 28 have dashed segments.

.=======.
:Y Y Y Y:  <<Note to ASCII version: These four "Y"'s were Hebrew Yods.>>
:.--.--.:
:   :   :
:   :   :
:   :   :
:   :   :
:   .   :
.=======.
.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====
:    : 58 :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :28
:  : : >--+----+-   : ---+--  : >--+-   :    : ---+----+-.  : *
:  : :    :    :/   /    :/   : 50 :/   :    :/   :    : :  : :
:--+-+----+----/---/+---/+----+----/----+----/----+----+-+--: :
:  : :    :   /:  / :  / :    :   /:    :   /:    :    : :  : :
:  : :  --+--/ : *  : /  :    :  / :    :  / : >--+-.  : :  : :
:  :\:   \:    :53  : :  : :  :  : : :  : :  :47  : :  : :  : :
:--+-\----\----+----+-+--+-+--+--+-+-+--+-+--+----+-+--+-+--: :
:  : :\   :\   :    : :  : :  :  : : :  : :  :    : :  : :  : :
:  : : \  : \--+--  : .--+-.  :  .-+-.  : *  :  .-+-.  :    : :
:   \:  \ :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :  : :    :    : :
:----\---\+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+--+-+----+----: :
:    :\   \    :  * :    :    :    :    :    :  : :    : *  : :
: >--+-\  :\   :  : :    : .--+--  : *  :    :  .-+-.  : :  : :
:51  :    : \  :45: : :\ : :  :    :59 \: :  :    : :  : :61: :
:----+----+----+--+-+-+-\+-+--+----+----\-+--+----+-+--+-+--: :
:    :    :    :  : : :  \ :  :    :    :\:  :    : :  : :  : :
: >--+----+--  :  .-+-.  :\:  :/ \ :  --+-+--+--  :    : :  : :
:49  :    : /  :    :    :    /   \:    : :\ :    :    : :  : :
:----+----+/---+----+----+---/+----\----+-+-\+----+----+-+--: :
:    :    /    : ---+--  :  / : *  :\   : :  \    :    : :  : :
:  \ :  /-+--  :/   :    :  \ :  \ : \  :    :\   :  --+-.  : :
:   \:    : /  /    :    :   \:43 \:  \ :    :    :/   :    : :
:----+\---/---/+----+----+----\----\---\+----+----/----+----: :
:    : \/ :  / :    :    :    :\   :\   \    :   /:    :    : :
:    :    :  --+--  : .--+--< : \--+-\  :\   :  /-+-   :/:  : :
:  :\:    :    :  \ : :  :56  :    :    :    :    /    / :  : :
:--+-\----+----+---\+-+--+----+----+----+----+---/+---/+-+--: :
:  : :\   :    :    \ :  :    :    :    :    :  / :  / : :  : :
:  \ : \  :  --+-.  :\   : >--+--.-+--  :    :    : /  : /  : :
:   \:44* : /  : :  :    :63  :  : :    :  : :    :/   :/   : :
:----\----/----+-+--+----+----+--+-+----+--+-+----/----/----: :
:    :\ / :    : :  :    :    :  : :    :  : :   /:   /:    : :
:    :    :  \ :    :    : *  :  .-+----+--. :  / :  /-+--. : :
:    :    :   \:    :  :\: :60:    :    :    : *64:    :  : : :
:----+----+----\----+--+-\-+--+----+----+----+----+----+--+-: :
:    :    :    :\   :  : :\:  :    :    :    :    :    :  : : :
:    :  .-+--. : /  : /  :    : ---+--. : >--+----+--. :    : :
:    :  : :  : :/   :/   :    :/   :  : :46  :    :  : :    : .
:----+--+-+--+-/---/+----+----/----+--+-+----+----+--+-+----: 29
:    :  : :  :/:  / :    :   /:    :  : :    :    :  : :    : **
: >--+--. :    : /  :  * :  / :   -+--. :  .-+----+--. : *  : ::
:52  :    :    :/   :57: : *62:   \:    :  : :    :    :/ 55: ::
:----+----+----/----+--+-+----+----\----+--+-+----+----/----: ::
:    :    :   /:    :  : :    :    :\   :  : :    :   /:    : ::
: .--+--. :  /-+--  :  .-+----+--  : \  :    :  .-+--/ :    : ::
: :  :  : :    :    :    :    :/   :  \ :    :  : :    :  : : ::
:-+--+--+-+----+----+----+----/----+---\+----+--+-+----+--+-: ::
: :  :  : :    :    :    :   /:    :    \    :  : :    :  : : ::
: *  :  .-+----+----+--  :  /-+----+--  :\   :  .-+----+--. : ::
:48  :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    : ::
:----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----. ::
:                                            <----------------..-
:  <-------------------------------------*30
:                                            <----------------..-
:----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----. ::
:    :    :    :    :    :  * :    :    :    :    :    :    : ::
:  .-+--< :    : >--+-.  :  : :  .-+----+----+--. : >--+--. : ::
:  : :74  :  : :69  : :  :67: :  : :    :    :  : :75  :  : : ::
:--+-+----+--+-+----+-+--+--+-+--+-+----+----+--+-+----+--+-: ::
:  : :  * :  : :    : :  :  : :  : :    :    :  : :    :  : : ::
:  : :  : :  .-+--. : :  :  : :  * : >--+--- :  .-+--  :  : : ::
:  : :77: :    :  : : :  :  : :76  :72  :   \:    :    :  : : ::
:--+-+--+-+----+--+-+-+--+--+-+----+----+----\----+----+--+-: ::
:  : :  : :    :  : : :  :  : :    :    :    :\   :    :  : : ::
:  : :  .-+----+--. : :  :  .-+----+----+--. : \--+--  :  : : ::
:  : :    :    :    : :  :    :    :    :  : :    :/   :  : : ::
:--+-+----+----+----+-+--+----+----+----+--+-+----/----+--+-: ::
:  : :    :    :    : :  :    :    :    :  : :   /:    :  : : ::
:  .-+--. :  --+--\ : .--+----+--  : :  :  : :  / : .--+--. : ::
:    :  : :    :   \:    :    :    : :  :    :  : : :  :    : ::
:----+--+-+----+----\----+----+----+-+--+----+--+-+-+--+----: ::
:    :  : :    :    :\   :    :    : :  :    :  : : :  :    : **
: :\ :    : >--+----+-\--+----+--  : :  :  --+--. : :  :/:  : 29
: : \:    :68  :    :    :    :    : :  :    :    :    / :  : .
:-+--\----+----+----+----+----+----+-+--+----+----+---/+-+--: :
: :  :\   :    :    :    :  * :    : :  :    :    :  / : :  : :
: :  : \--+----+--. : :  :  : :  .-+-.  :  --+--< : /  : :  : :
: :  :    :    :  : : :  :66: :  : :    :   \:80  :/   : :  : :
:-+--+----+----+--+-+-+--+--+-+--+-+----+----\----/----+-+--: :
: :  :    :    :  : : :  :  : :  : :    :    :\  /:  * : :  : :
: *  : >--+-.  :  : : :  :  .-+--. :  .-+--< : \/ :  : : :  : :
:73  :70  : :  :    : :  :    :    :  : :71  :    :87: :    : :
:----+----+-+--+----+-+--+----+----+--+-+----+----+--+-+----: :
:    :  * : :  :    : :  :    :    :  : :    :    :  : :    : :
:    :  : : .--+----+-.  : ---+--\ :  .-+--. :  : :  .-+-.  : :
:    :81: :    :    :    :/   :   \:    :  : :  : :    : :  : :
:----+--+-+----+----+----/----+----\----+--+-+--+-+----+-+--: :
:    :  : :    :    :   /:    :    :\   :  : :  : :    : :  : :
:    :  : :  --+--. :  / : ---+--  : \  :  .-+--. :  .-+-.  : :
:    :  : :    :  : : :  :  \ :    : :  :    :    :  : :    : :
:----+--+-+----+--+-+-+--+----\----+-+--+----+----+--+-+----: :
:  * :  : :    :  : : :  :    :\   : :  :    :    :  : :    : :
:  : :  .-+----+--. : .--+--< : \  : :  : *  :  --+--. :  * : :
:86: :    :    :    :    :78  :  \ :    : :79:    :    :82: : :
:--+-+----+----+----+----+----+----\----+-+--+----+----+--+-: :
:  : : *  :    :    :  * :    :    :\   : :  :    :    :  : : :
:  : : :  : ---+--  :  : : :\ : :\ : \  : :  : .--+----+--. : :
:  : : :84:/   :/   :83: : : \: : \:  \ : :  : :  :    :    : :
:--+-+-+--/----/----+--+-+-+--\-+--\----\-+--+-+--+----+----: :
:  : : : /:   /:    :  : : :  :\:  :\   :\:  : :  :    :    : :
:  : : :/ :  /-+--\ :  .-+-.  :    : \  : \  : .--+----+--  : :
:  : :    :    :   \:    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    : :
:--+-+----+----+----\----+----+----+----+----+----+----+----: :
:  : :    :    :    :\   :    :    :    :    :    :    :    : :
:  .-+----+----+--  : \  : >--+----+----+----+----+----+--  : *
:    :    :    :    :    :85  :    :    :    :    :    :    :28
.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====
.=======.
:   .   :
:   :   :
:   :   :
::--+--::
:   :   :
:   :   :
:   .   :
.=======.

                                                        .=======.
                                                        :   .   :
                                                        :   :   :
                                                        : 4 : b :
                                                        ::--+--::
                                                        : b : 6 :
                                                        :   :   :
                                                        :   .   :
                                                        .=======.
====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.
28  :    :    : *  :    :    :    :    :    : *  :    :    :    :
 *  : >--+-   :  \ : >--+----+-.  : .--+--  :/   : ---+----+--  :
 :  :88  :/   :1  \:90  :    : :  : :  :    / 91 :/   :    :/   :
 :  :----/----+----\----+----+-+--+-+--+---/+----/----+----/----:
 :  :   /:    :    :\   :    : :  : :  :  / :  / :    :  / :    :
 :  :  / :  --+-.  : :  : /  : .--+-.  : /  : /--+- \ :    : :  :
 :  :   \:    : :  : :  :/   :    :    :/   :    :   \:    : :  :
 :  :----\----+-+--+-+--/----+----+----/----+----+----\----+-+--:
 :  : *  :\   : :  : : /:    :    :   /:    :    :    :\   : :  :
 :  :  \ : \--+-.  : .--+----+--  :  --+----+-.  : /  : \  : /  :
 :  :10 \:    :    :    :/   :    :    :    : :  :/   :69* :/   :
 :  :----\----+----+----/----+----+----+----+-+--/----+----/----:
 :  :    :\   :    :   /:    :    :    :    : : /:    :   /:    :
 :  :    : \--+-.  :  / : >--+----+-.--+--  :  / :    :  /-+-   :
 :  :  :\:    : :  :    :6   :    : :  :    :    :  :\:    :/   :
 :  :--+-\----+-+--+----+----+----+-+--+----+----+--+-\----/----:
 :  :  : :\   : :  :    :    :    : :  :  * :    :  : :\  /:    :
 :  :  : : \--+-.  : >--+-.  : .--+-.  : /  : /  :  : : \/ :    :
 :  :    :    :    :11  : :  : :  :    :/  3:/   :2 * :    :    :
 :  :----+----+----+----+-+--+-+--+----/----/----+----+----+----:
 :  :    :    :    :    : :  : :  :   /:   /: *  :    :    :    :
 :  : >--+--  : :  :  .-+-.  :    :  / :  / :  \ :  .-+--. :    :
 :  :7   :/   : :  :  : :    :    :  : :   \: 6 \:  : :  : : :  :
 :  :----/----+-+--+--+-+----+----+--+-+----\----\--+-+--+-+-+--:
 :  :   /:    : :  :  : :    :    :  : :    :\   :\ : :  : : :  :
 :  :  / :  .-+-.  :  .-+--  :  \ :  .-+----+-\  : \: :  .-+-.  :
 :  :   \:  : :    :    :/   :   \:    :    :    :    :    :    :
 :  :----\--+-+----+----/----+----\----+----+----+----+----+----:
 :  : *  :\ : :    :   /:    :    :\   :    : 65 :    :    :    :
 :  : :  : \: : :\ :  / : /  : /: : \--+--  : *  : /: : /: : :  :
 :  : :31:    : : \:    :/   :/ : :    :/   :/   :/ : :/ : : :  :
 :  :-+--+----+-+--\----/----/--+-+----/----/----/--+-/--+-+-+--:
 :  : :  :    : :  :\  /:   /:  : :   /:   /:   /:  :/:  : : :  :
 :  : .--+--  :  \ : \/ :  / :  .-+--/ :  / :  * :    :  .-+-.  :
 :  :    :/   :   \:    :4*  :    :    :  : :  15:    :    :    :
 :  :----/----+----\----+----+----+----+--+-+----+----+----+----:
 :  :   /:    :    :\   :    :    :    :  : :    :    :    :    :
 :  :  /-+--  : *  : \--+--. :  : :  .-+--. : >--+----+--  : /: :
 .  :    :/   : :18:    :  : :  : :  : :    :5   :    :/   :/ : :
 29 :----/----+-+--+----+--+-+--+-+--+-+----+----+----/----/--+-:
 ** :   /:    : :  :    :  : :  : :  : :  * :    :   /:   /:  : :
 :: :  /-+--  : .--+-   :  : :  .-+--. : /  : /  :  /-+--/ :  : :
 :: :    :    :    :/   :    :    :    :/ 32:/   :    :    :    :
 :: :----+----+----/----+----+----+----/----/----+----+----+----:
 :: :    :    :   /:    :    :    :   /:   /:  * :    :    :    :
 :: :    :  --+--/ : >--+--- :   -+--/ :  / :  : :   -+----+--  :
 :: : :  :/   :    :12  :   \:   \:    : :  :9 : :   \:    :    :
 :: :-+--/----+----+----+----\----\----+-+--+--+-+----\----+----:
 :: : : /:    :    :    :    :\   : \--+-.  :  : :    :\   :    :
 :: : :/ :  --+----+----+----+-\  :    :    :  .-+----+-\  :    :
 :: :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :
 :: .----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----:
-..--------------->                                             :
                    30*---------------------------------------> :
-..--------------->                                             :
 :: .----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----.----:
 :: :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :
 :: : .--+----+-.  :  .-+----+--< :    : .--+--- : >--+--. :    :
 :: : :  :    : :  :  : :    :34  :/:  : :  :   \:17  :  : :/:  :
 :: :-+--+----+-+--+--+-+----+----/-+--+-+--+----\----+--+-/-+--:
 :: : :  :    : :  :  : :    :   /: :  : :  :    :\   :  :/: :  :
 :: : .--+--  : /  :  : : >--+--/ : /  : /  :    : /  :    : :  :
 :: :    :    :/   :  : :35  :    :/   :/   :  : :/   :    : :  :
 :: :----+----/----+--+-+----+----/----/----+--+-/----+----+-+--:
 :: : *  :   /:    :  : :    :   /:   /:  * :  :/:    :    : :  :
 :: :  \ :  / :  .-+--. : /--+--/ :  / :  : :    :  --+--. : :  :
 :: :19 \: *33:  : :    :/   :    : *42:37: :    :    :  : :    :
 :: :----\----+--+-+----/----+----+----+--+-+----+----+--+-+----:
 :: :    :\   :  : :   /:    :    :    :  : :    :    :  : :    :
 :: :  \ : \  :  : :  / : >--+--.-+--  :  .-+----+----+--. :    :
 :: :  :\:  \ :    :    :40  :  : :    :    :    :    :    :    :
 :: :--+-\----\----+----+----+--+-+----+----+----+----+----+----:
 ** :  : :\   :\   :    :    :  : :    :    :    :    :    :    :
 29 :    : \  : \  : /: :  --+--+-+--  : >--+--  :  --+--  : /  :
 .  :    :  : :/   :/ : :    :  : :    :36  :/   :    :/   :/   :
 :  :----+--+-/----/--+-+----+--+-+----+----/----+----/----/----:
 :  : *  :  :/:   /:  : :  * :  : :  * :   /:    :   /:   /:    :
 :  :  \ :    :  / :  : :  : :  : :  : :  /-+----+--/ :  /-+-.  :
 :  :41 \:    : :  :  : :20: :    :38: :    :    :    :    : :  :
 :  :----\----+-+--+--+-+--+-+----+--+-+----+----+----+----+-+--:
 :  :    :\   : :  :  : :  : :    :  : :    :    :    :    : :  :
 :  :  \ : \  : *  :  : :  \ :  --+--+-+--  : >--+----+----+-.  :
 :  :  :\:  \ :24  :  : :   \:    :  : :    :39  :    :    :    :
 :  :--+-\----\----+--+-+----\----+--+-+----+----+----+----+----:
 :  :  : :\   :\   :  : :    :\   :  : :    :    :    :    :    :
 :  :  \ : \  : /  :  .-+--  : \  :  : : >--+----+--. : >--+--. :
 :  :   \:    :/   :    :    :/   :  : :16  :    :  : :22  :  : :
 :  :----\----/----+----+----/----+--+-+----+----+--+-+----+--+-:
 :  : *  :\  /:    :    :   /:    :  : :    :    :  : :    :  : :
 :  :  \ : \/ : .--+----+--/ :    :  .-+--  :    :  : : .--+--. :
 :  :10 \:    : :  :    :    :/:  :    :    :  :\:  : : :  :    :
 :  :----\----+-+--+----+----/-+--+----+----+--+-\--+-+-+--+----:
 :  :    :\   : :  :    :   /: :  :    :    :  : :\ : : :  :    :
 :  : :\ : \  : :  : /  :  / : :--+----+--  :  : : \: : .--+--  :
 :  : : \:  \ :    :/ : :23  : :  :    :    :    :    :    :/   :
 :  :-+--\----\----/--+-+----+-+--+----+----+----+----+----/----:
 :  : :  :\   :\  /:  : :    : :  :    :    :    :    :   /:    :
 :  : :  : \  : \/ :  .-+--  : .--+--  : /: : /: : /: :  / : /: :
 :  : :  : :  :    :    :/   :    :    :/ : :/ : :/ : :    :/ : :
 :  :-+--+-+--+----+----/----+----+----/--+-/--+-/--+-+----/--+-:
 :  : :  : :  :  * :   /:    :    :   /:  :/:  :/:  : :   /:  : :
 :  : :  : :  :  : :  / :  .-+--. :  * :    :    :    :  / :  : :
 :  : *15:/   :27: :    :  : :  : :21  :    :    :    : /  :  : :
 :  :----/----+--+-+----+--+-+--+-+----+----+----+----/----+--+-:
 :  :   /:    :  : :    :  : :  : :    :    :    :   /:    :  : :
 *  :  --+--  :  .-+----+--. :    :    :    : >--+--/ :    :    :
28  :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :    :26  :    :    :    :
====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.====.
                                                        .=======.
                  {A Sun disk with 12 rays. -->         :       :
                                                        :       :
                   Vertical rays are straight           :       :
                                                        :       :
                   Horizontal rays wavy & top is        :       :
                                                        :       :
                   straight, rest alternate}            :       :
                                                        .=======.

"PLATE X."}



PART II


THE FORTY-EIGHT CALLS OR KEYS

"These are Most Solemn Invocations." Use these only after other 
invocations. Key tablet hath 6 calls, 1 above other 5.

1: Governs generally as a whole the tablet of Union. Use it "first" in all
invocations of Angels of that tablet, but not at all with other 4 tablets.

2: Used as an invocation of Angels e h n b representing governance of 
Spirit in the tablet of Union: also precedes, "in the second place," all 
invocations of the Key tablet Angels. Not used in invocations of 4 other 
tablets.

3, 4, 5, 6: Used in invocations of Angels of Tablet of Union, "also" of 
angels of 4 terrestrial tablets, thus ---

3: Used to invoke Angels of the letters of the line e x a r p.

For those of Tablet ORO as a whole and for the lesser angle of this tablet,
which is that of the element itself, viz. i d o i g o. So for others ---

The remaining 12 Keys refer to the remaining lesser angles of the tablets, 
the order of the elements being Air, Water, Earth, Fire.

Pronounce Elemental language (also called Angelic or Enochian) by inserting the next following Hebrew vowel between consonants, "e.g." e after b (bEth), i after g (gImel), a after d, etc.




THE OPENING OF THE PORTAL OF THE
VAULT OF THE ADEPTS.

HB:P.R.K.Th. PAROKETH, the Veil of the Sanctuary.
The Sign of the Rending of the Veil.
The Sign of the Closing of the Veil.
[Give these.]
Make the Invoking Pentagrams of Spirit.

In the number 21, in the grand word HB:AHYH;
In the Name HB:YHShVH, in the Pass Word I.N.R.I.,

O Spirits of the Tablet of Spirit,
Ye, ye, I invoke!
The sign of Osiris slain!
The sign of the mourning of Isis!
The sign of Apophis and Typhon!
The sign of Osiris Risen!
L. V. X., Lux. The Light of the Cross.
[Give these.]

In the name of I H V H A L V H V D O Th, I declare that the Spirits of 
Spirit have been duly invoked.

The Knock 1 --- 4444.



THE FIRST KEY<<Collation of the various MSS. of 
these calls has not done away with Various Readings; and there is not enough of the language extant to enable a settlement on general principles. --- ED.>>

OL sonuf vaoresaji, gohu IAD Balata, elanusaha caelazod: sobrazod-ol Roray i ta nazodapesad, Giraa ta maelpereji, das hoel-qo qaa notahoa zodimezod, od comemahe ta nobeloha zodien; soba tahil ginonupe pereje aladi, das vaurebes obolehe giresam. Casarem ohorela caba Pire: das zodonurenusagi cab: erem Iadanahe. Pilahe farezodem zodenurezoda adana gono Iadapiel das home-tohe: soba ipame lu ipamis: das sobolo vepe zodomeda poamal, od bogira aai ta piape Piamoel od Vaoan<<Read here Vooan in invocations of the Fallen Spirits.>>! 
Zodacare, eca, od zodameranu! odo cicale Qaa; zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, Hoathahe I A I D A!

86 words in this Enochian Call.
[Invokes the whole Tablet of Spirit.]


THE FIRST KEY

I REIGN over ye, saith the God of Justice, in power exalted above the 
Firmament of Wrath, in whose hands the Sun is as a sword, and the Moon as a through thrusting Fire: who measureth your Garments in the midst of my 
Vestures, and trussed you together as the palms of my hands. Whose seats I 
garnished with the Fire of Gathering, and beautified your garments with 
admiration. To whom I made a law to govern the Holy Ones, and delivered ye a Rod, with the Ark of Knowledge. Moreover you lifted up your voices and sware obedience and faith to him that liveth and triumpheth: whose beginning is not, nor end cannot be: which shineth as a flame in the midst of your palaces, and reigneth amongst you as the balance of righteousness and truth!

Move therefore, and shew yourselves! Open the mysteries of your creation!
Be friendly unto me, for I am the Servant of the same your God: the true 
worshipper of the Highest!

169 words in this English Call.


THE SECOND KEY

ADAGITA vau-pa-ahe zodonugonu fa-a-ipe salada! Vi-i-vau el! Sobame 
ial-pereji i-zoda-zodazod pi-adapehe casarema aberameji ta ta-labo paracaleda qo-to lores-el-qo turebesa ooge balatohe! Giui cahisa lusada oreri od micalapape cahisa bia ozodonugonu! lape noanu tarofe coresa tage o-quo maninu IA-I-DON. Torezodu! gohe-el, zodacare eca ca-no-quoda! zodameranu micalazodo od ozadazodame vaurelar; lape zodir IOIAD!


THE SECOND KEY

CAN the Wings of the Winds understand your voices of Wonder? O you! the second of the First! whom the burning flames have framed in the depth of my Jaws! Whom I have prepared as cups for a wedding, or as the flowers in their beauty for the chamber of Righteousness! Stronger are your feet than the barren stone: and mightier are your voices than the manifold winds! For you are become a building such as is not, save in the Mind of the All-Powerful.

Arise, saith the First: Move therefore unto his servants! Shew yourselves 
in power, and make me a strong Seer-of-things: for I am of Him that liveth forever!

[Invokes: The File of Spirit in the Tablet of Spirit.
E --- the Root of the Powers of Air.
H --- the Root of the Powers of Water.
N --- the Root of the Powers of Earth.
B --- the Root of the Powers of Fire.
The Four Aces.]


THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE IN THE
GRADE OF 2 Degree = 9 Square

GIVE the Sign of Shu.

[Knock.] Let us adore the Lord and King of Air!
Shaddai El Chai! Almighty and ever-living One, be Thy Name ever magnified in the Life of All. (Sign of Shu.) Amen!

[Make the Invoking Penta- . AHIH.
gram of Spirit Active : AGLA.
in these names: . EXARP.

[Make the Invoking Penta- .
gram of Air in these : IHVH.
names: . ShDI AL ChI.]

And Elohim said Let us make Adam in our own image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fowls of the air.

In the Names of IHVH and of ShDI AL ChI, Spirits of Air, adore your 
Creator!

[With air-dagger (or other suitable weapon) make the sign of Aquarius.] In 
the name of RPAL and in the Sign of the Man, Spirits of Air, adore your 
Creator!

[Make the Cross.] In the Names and Letters of the Great Eastern Quadrangle, Spirits of Air, adore your Creator!

[Hold dagger aloft.] In the Three great Secret Names of God, ORO IBAH 
AOZPI that are borne upon the Banners of the East, Spirits of Air, adore your Creator!

[Again elevate dagger.] In the Name of BATAIVAH, great King of the East, 
Spirits of Air, adore your Creator!

In the Name of Shaddai AL Chai, I declare that the Spirits of Air have been
duly invoked.
The Knock 333 --- 333 --- 333.


THE THIRD KEY

MICAMA! goho Pe-IAD! zodir com-selahe azodien biabe os-lon-dohe. 
Norezodacahisa otahila Gigipahe; vaunud-el-cahisa ta-pu-ime qo-mos-pelehe telocahe; qui-i-inu toltoregi cahisa i cahisaji em ozodien; dasata beregida od torezodul! Ili e-Ol balazodareji, od aala tahilanu-os netaabe: daluga vaomesareji elonusa cape-mi-ali vaoresa "cala" homila; cocasabe fafenu izodizodope, od miinoagi de ginetaabe: vaunu na-na-e-el: panupire malapireji caosaji. Pilada noanu vaunalahe balata od-vaoan. Do-o-i-ape mada: goholore, gohus, amiranu! Micama! Yehusozod ca-ca-com, od do-o-a-inu noari mica-olazoda a-ai-om. Casarameji gohia: Zodacare! Vaunigilaji! od im-ua-mar pugo gelapeli Ananael Qo-a-an.

80 words in this Enochian Call.


THE THIRD KEY

BEHOLD! saith your God! I am a circle on whose hands stand Twelve 
Kingdoms. Six are the seats of living breath: the rest are as sharp Sickles, 
or the Horns of Death. Wherein the creatures of Earth are and are not, except (in) mine own hands; which sleep and shall rise!

In the First I made ye stewards, and placed ye in twelve seats of 
government: giving unto every one of you power successively over the 456 true ages of time: to the intent that from the highest vessels and the corners of your governments you might work my Power, pouring down the fires of Life and increase continually on the earth. Thus you are become the skirts of Justice and Truth.

In the name of the same your God, lift up, I say, yourselves!

Behold! His mercies flourish, and (His) Name is become mighty among us. 
In whom we say: Move! Descend! and apply yourselves unto us as unto the 
partakers of His Secret Wisdom in your Creation.

167 words in this English Call.

[Invokes: Exarp; the whole Tablet of Air.
The angle of Air of Air.
The Prince of the Chariot of the Winds.


THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE IN THE
GRADE OF 3 Degree = 8 Square

GIVE the Sign of Auramoth.

[Knock.] Let us adore the Lord and King of Water!
Elohim Tzabaoth! Elohim of Hosts!
Glory be to the Ruach Elohim which moved upon the Face of the Waters of 
Creation!
AMEN!

[Make the Invoking . AHIH.
Pentagram of Spirit: AGLA.
Passive and pro- :
nounce these names:. HCOMA.]

[Make the Invoking .
Pentagram of Water : AL.
and pronounce: . ALHIM TzBAVTh.]

And Elohim said: Let us make Adam in Our image; and let them have dominion over the Fish of the Sea! In the Name of A L, Strong and Powerful, and in the name of ALHIM TzBAVTh, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!

[Make Sigil of Eagle with cup.] In the name of GBRIAL and in the sign of 
the Eagle, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!

[Make cross with cup.] In all the Names and Letters of the Great 
Quadrangle of the West, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!

[Elevate cup.] In the three great Secret Names of God MPH ARSL GAIOL that are borne upon the Banners of the West, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!

[Elevate cup.] In the Name of RAAGIOSEL, great King of the West, Spirits 
of Water, adore your Creator!

In the name of Elohim Tzabaoth, I declare that the Spirits of Water have 
been duly invoked.
The Knock. 1 --- 333 --- 1 --- 333.


THE FOURTH KEY

OTAHIL elasadi babaje, od dorepaha gohol: gi-cahisaje auauago coremepe 
"peda," dasonuf vi-vau-di-vau? Casaremi oeli "meapeme" sobame agi coremepo carep-el: casaremeji caro-o-dazodi cahisa od vaugeji; dasata ca-pi-mali cahisa ca-pi-ma-on: od elonusahinu cahisa ta el-o "calaa." Torezodu nor-quasahi od fe-caosaga: Bagile zodir e-na-IAD: das iod apila! Do-o-a-ipe quo-A-AL, zodacare! Zodameranu obelisonugi resat-el aaf nor-mo-lapi!


THE FOURTH KEY

I HAVE set my feet in the South, and have looked about me, saying: are not 
the thunders of increase numbered 33, which reign in the second Angle?

Under whom I have placed 9639: whom none hath yet numbered, but One; in whom the Second Beginnings of Things are and wax strong, which also 
successively are the Numbers of Time: and their powers are as the first 456.

Arise! you sons of Pleasure! and visit the earth: for I am the Lord your 
God; which is and liveth (for ever)! In the name of the Creator, move! and 
shew yourselves as pleasant deliverers, that you may praise him among 
the sons of men!

[Invokes: hcoma; the whole tablet of Water.
The Angle of Water of Water.
The Queen of the Thrones of Water.]


THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE IN THE
GRADE OF 1 Degree = 10 Square

GIVE the Sign of the God SET fighting.

Purify with Fire and Water, and announce "The Temple is cleansed."
[Knock.] Let us adore the Lord and King of Earth!
Adonai ha Aretz, Adonai Melehk, unto Thee be the Kingdom, the Sceptre, and the Splendour: Malkuth, Geburah, Gedulah, The Rose of Sharon and the Lily of  the Valley, Amen!
[Sprinkle Salt before Earth tablet.] Let the Earth adore Adonai!

[Make the Invoking Hexagram of Saturn.]

[Make the Invoking Pentagram of . AHIH.
Spirit Passive, and pronounce: AGLA.
the Names: . NANTA.]

[Make the Invoking Pentagram of .
Earth, and pronounce this : ADNI MLK.].
Name: .

And Elohim said: Let us make Man in Our own image; and let them have 
dominion over the Fish of the Sea and over the Fowl of the Air; and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the Earth. and the Elohim created 
ATh-h-ADAM: in the image of the Elohim created They them; male and female created They them. In the Name of ADNI MLK, and of the Bride and Queen of the Kingdom; Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!

[Make the Sign of Taurus.] In the Name of AVRIAL, great archangel of 
Earth, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!

[Make the Cross.] In the Names and Letters of the Great Northern 
Quadrangle, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!

[Sprinkle water before Earth Tablet.] In the three great secret Names of 
God, MOR, DIAL, HCTGA, that are borne upon the Banners of the North, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!

[Cense the Tablet.] In the name of IC-ZOD-HEH-CA, great king of the North,
Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!

In the Name of Adonai Ha-Aretz, I declare that the Spirits of Earth have 
been duly invoked.
The Knock. 4444 --- 333 --- 22 --- 1.


THE FIFTH KEY

SAPAHE zodimii du-i-be, od noasa ta qu-a-nis, adarocahe dorepehal caosagi od faonutas peripesol ta-be-liore. Casareme A-me-ipezodi na-zodaretahe "afa;" od dalugare zodizodope zode-lida caosaji tol-toregi; od zod-cahisa esiasache El ta-vi-vau; od iao-d tahilada das hubare "pe-o-al;" soba coremefa cahisa ta Ela Vaulasa od Quo-Co-Casabe. Eca niisa od darebesa quo-a-asa: fetahe-ar-ezodi od beliora; ia-ial eda-nasa cicalesa; bagile Ge-iad I-el!


THE FIFTH KEY

The mighty sounds have entered into the third angle, and are become as 
olives in the Olive Mount; looking with gladness upon the earth, and dwelling in the brightness of the Heavens as continual Comforters.

Unto whom I fastened 19 Pillars of Gladness, and gave them vessels to water the earth with her creatures; and they are the brothers of the First and 
Second, and the beginning of their own seats, which are garnished with 69,636 ever-burning lamps: whose numbers are as the First, the Ends, and the Contents of Time.

Therefore come ye and obey your creation: visit us in peace and comfort: 
conclude us receivers of your mysteries: for why? Our Lord and Master is the All-One!

[Invokes: Nanta; the whole tablet of Earth.
The angle of Earth of Earth.
The Princess of the Echoing Hills, the Rose
of the Palace of Earth.]


THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE IN THE
GRADE OF 4 Degree = 7 Square

GIVE the Sign of Thoum-aesh-neith.

[Knock.] Let us adore the Lord and King of Fire!
Tetragrammaton Tzabaoth! Blessed be Thou! The Leader of Armies is Thy 
Name! AMEN!

[Make the Invoking Pentagram of. AHIH.
Spirit Active, and pronounce: AGLA.
the Names: . BITOM.]

[Make the Invoking Pentagram of . ALHIM
Fire, and pronounce: : IHVH TzBAVTh.
.

[Make the sign of Leo with censer (or other suitable weapon).] In the name
of MIKAL, archangel of Fire, Spirits of Fire, adore your Creator!

[Make the Cross.] In the Names and Letters of the Great Southern 
Quadrangle, Spirits of Fire, adore your Creator!

[Elevate censer.] In the three Secret names of God, OIP TEAA PDOCE, that are born upon the banners of the South, Spirits of Fire, adore your Creator!

[Lower and lift censer.] In the Name of EDELPERNA, great King of the 
South, Spirits of Fire, adore your Creator!

In the Name of IHVH TzBAVTh, I declare that the Spirits of Fire have been 
duly invoked.
The Knock. 333 --- 1 --- 333.


THE SIXTH KEY

GAHE sa-div cahisa "em," micalazoda Pil-zodinu, sobam El haraji mir 
babalonu od obeloce samevelaji, dalagare malapereji ar-caosaji od "acame" canale, sobola zodare fa-beliareda caosaji od cahisa aneta-na miame ta Viv od Da. Daresare Solpetahe-bienu. Be-ri-ta od zodacame ji-mi-calazodo: sob-ha-atahe tarianu luia-he od ecarinu MADA Qu-a-a-on!


THE SIXTH KEY

THE Spirits of the fourth angle are Nine, Mighty in the Firmament of 
Waters: whom the First hath planted, a torment to the wicked and a garland to the righteous: giving unto them fiery darts to vanne the earth, and 7699 
continual workmen, whose courses visit with comfort the earth; and are in 
government and continuance as the Second and the Third ---

Therefore hearken unto my voice! I have talked of you, and I move you in 
power and presence, whose works shall be a song of honour, and the praise of  your God in your Creation!

[Invokes: bitom; the whole tablet of Fire.
The Angle of Fire of Fire
The Lord of the Flame and the Lightning,
the King of the Spirits of Fire.]


THE SEVENTH KEY

RA-ASA isalamanu para-di-zoda oe-cari-mi aao iala-pire-gahe Qui-inu. Enai butamonu od inoasa "ni" pa-ra-diala. Casaremeji ujeare cahirelanu, od 
zodonace lucifatianu, caresa ta vavale-zodirenu tol-hami. Soba lonudohe od 
nuame cahisa to Da o Desa vo-ma-dea od pi-beliare itahila rita od miame 
ca-ni-quola rita! Zodacare! Zodameranu! Iecarimi Quo-a-dahe od 
I-mica-ol-zododa aaiome. Bajirele papenore idalu-gama elonusahi-od umapelifa vau-ge-ji Bijil-IAD!


THE SEVENTH KEY

THE East is a house of Virgins singing praises among the flames of the 
first glory wherein the Lord hath opened his mouth; and they are become 28 
living dwellings in whom the strength of man rejoiceth; and they are 
apparelled with ornaments of brightness, such as work wonders on all 
creatures. Whose kingdoms and continuance are as the Third and Fourth, 
strong towers and places of comfort, the Seats of Mercy and Continuance. O 
ye Servants of Mercy, Move! Appear! Sing praises unto the Creator; and be 
mighty amongst us. For that to this remembrance is given power, and our 
strength waxeth strong in our Comforter!

[Invokes the Angle of Water of Air in the tablet of Air
The Queen of the Thrones of Air.]


THE EIGHTH KEY

BAZODEMELO i ta pi-ripesonu olanu Na-zodavabebe "ox." Casaremeji varanu cahisa vaugeji asa berameji balatoha: goho IAD. Soba miame tarianu ta lolacis Abaivoninu od azodiajiere riore. Irejila cahisa da das pa-aox busada Caosago, das cahisa od ipuranu telocahe cacureji o-isalamahe lonucaho od Vovina carebafe? NIISO! bagile avavago gohon. NIISO! bagile momao siaionu, od mabezoda IAD oi asa-momare poilape. NIIASA! Zodameranu ciaosi caosago od belioresa od coresi ta a beramiji.


THE EIGHTH KEY

THE Midday, the first is as the third Heaven made of 26 Hyacinthine 
Pillars, in whom the Elders are become strong, which I have prepared for 
mine own Righteousness, saith the Lord: whose long continuance shall be as bucklers to the Stooping Dragon, and like unto the harvest of a Widow. How many are there which remain in the Glory of the Earth, which are, and shall not see Death until the House fall and the Dragon sink? Come away! for the Thunders (of increase) have spoken. Come away! for the Crowns of the Temple and the Robe of Him that is, was, and shall be, crowned, are divided! Come forth! Appear! to the terror of the Earth, and to our comfort, and to the comfort of such as are prepared.

The Angle of Earth of Air in the tablet of Air.
The Princess of the Rushing Winds, the Lotus of the
Palace of Air.


THE NINTH KEY

MICAOLI beranusaji perejela napeta ialapore, das barinu efafaje "Pe" 
vaunupeho olani od obezoda, soba-ca upaahe cahisa tatanu od tarananu balie, alare busada so-bolunu od cahisa hoel-qo ca-no-quodi "cial." Vaunesa aladonu mom caosago ta insa olalore ginai limelala. Amema cahisa sobra madarida zod cahisa! Ooa moanu cahisa avini darilapi caosajinu: od butamoni pareme zodumebi canilu. Dazodisa etahamezoda cahisa dao, od mireka ozodola cahisa pidiai Colalala. Ul ci ninu a sobame ucime. Bajile? IAD BALATOHE cahirelanu pare! NIISO! od upe ofafafe; bajile a-cocasahe icoresaka a uniji beliore.


THE NINTH KEY

A MIGHTY guard of Fire with two-edged swords flaming (which have eight Vials of wrath for two times and a half, whose wings are of wormwood and of  the marrow of salt), have set their feet in the West, and are measured with their 9996 ministers. These gather up the moss of the Earth as the rich man doth his Treasure. Cursed are they whose iniquities they are! In their eyes are mill-stones greater than the earth, and from their mouths run seas of  blood. Their heads are covered with diamonds, and upon their heads are marble stones.<<v.l. "Upon their hands are marble sleeves.">> Happy is he on whom they frown not. For why? The Lord of Righteousness rejoiceth in them! Come away, and not your Vials: for that the time is such as requireth Comfort.

The Angle of Fire of Air in the tablet of Air,
The Lord of the Winds and Breezes; the King of the
Spirits of Air.


THE TENTH KEY

CORAXO cahisa coremepe, od belanusa Lucala azodiazodore paebe Soba iisononu cahisa uirequo "ope" copehanu od racalire maasi bajile caosagi; das yalaponu dosiji od basajime; od ox ex dazodisa siatarisa od salaberoxa cynuxire faboanu. Vaunala cahisa conusata das "daox" cacasa ol Oanio yore vohima ol jizodyazoda od eoresa cocasaji pelosi molui das pajeipe, laraji same darolanu matorebe cocasaji emena. El pataralaxa yolaci matabe nomiji mononusa olora jinayo anujelareda. Ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! noibe Ohyo! caosagonu! Bajile madarida i zodirope cahiso darisapa! NIISO! caripe ipe nidali!


THE TENTH KEY

THE Thunders of Judgment and Wrath are numbered and are harboured in the North, in the likeness of an Oak whose branches are 22 nests of lamentation and weeping laid up for the earth: which burn night and day, and vomit out the heads of scorpions and live Sulphur mingled with poison. These be the thunders that, 5678 times in the twenty-fourth part of a moment, roar with a hundred mighty earthquakes and a thousand times as many surges, which rest not, neither know any<<v.l. "Any echoing time between.">> time here. One rock bringeth forth a thousand, even as the heart of man doth his thoughts. Woe! 
Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! Yea, Woe be to the Earth, for her iniquity is, was, and shall be great. Come away! but not your mighty sounds!

The Angle of Air of Water in the tablet of Water.
The Prince of the Chariot of the Waters.


THE ELEVENTH KEY

OXIAYALA holado, od zodirome "O" coraxo das zodiladare raasyo. Od 
vabezodire cameliaxa od bahala: NIISO! sala-manu telocahe! Casaremanu 
hoel-qo, od ti ta zod cahisa soba coremefa i ga. NIISA! bagile aberameji 
nonusape. Zoda-care eca od Zodameranu! odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape 
zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA!


THE ELEVENTH KEY

THE mighty Seat groaned, and there were five Thunders that flew into the 
East. And the Eagle spake and cried aloud: Come away from the House of Death!
And they gathered themselves together and became (those) of whom it is 
measured, and it is as They are, whose number is 31. Come away! For I have prepared (a place) for you. Move therefore, and shew yourselves! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation. Be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God: the true worshipper of the Highest.

The Angle of Earth of Water, in the tablet of Water.
The Princess of the Waters, the Lotus of the Palace of
the Floods.


THE TWELFTH KEY

NONUCI dasonuf Babaje od cahisa "ob" hubaio tibibipe: alalare ataraahe od ef! Darix fafenu "mianu" ar Enayo ovof! Soba dooainu aai i VONUPEHE. 
Zodacare, gohusa, od Zodameranu. Odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA!


THE TWELFTH KEY

O YE that range in the South and are the 28 Lanterns of Sorrow, bind up your girdles and visit us! bring down your train 3663 (servitors), that the Lord may be magnified, whose name amongst ye is Wrath. Move! I say, and shew yourselves! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation. Be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.

The Angle of Fire of Water, in the tablet of Water
The Lord of the Waves and the Waters, the King of the
Hosts of the Sea.


THE THIRTEENTH KEY

NAPEAI Babajehe das berinu "vax" ooaona larinuji vonupehe doalime: conisa olalogi oresaha das cahisa afefa. Micama isaro Mada od Lonu-sahi-toxa, das invaumeda aai Jirosabe. Zodacare od Zodameranu. Odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, 
lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.


THE THIRTEENTH KEY

O YE Swords of the South, which have 42 eyes to stir up the wrath of Sin: 
making men drunken which are empty: Behold the Promise of God, and His Power, which is called amongst ye a bitter sting! Move and Appear! unveil the mysteries of your Creation, for I am the servant of the same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.

The Angle of Air of Earth, in the tablet of Earth.
The Prince of the Chariot of Earth.


THE FOURTEENTH KEY

NORONI bajihie pasahasa Oiada! das tarinuta mireca "ol" tahila dodasa 
tolahame caosago "h"omida: das berinu orocahe "quare:" Micama! Bial' Oiad; aisaro toxa das ivame aai Bala-tima. Zodacara od Zodameranu! Odo cicale Qaa!
Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.


THE FOURTEENTH KEY

O YE Sons of fury, the Daughters of the Just One! that sit upon 24 seats, 
vexing all creatures of the Earth with age, that have 1636 under ye. Behold!
The voice of God; the promise of Him who is called amongst ye Fury or Extreme Justice. Move and shew yourselves! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God: the true worshipper of the Highest!

The Angle of Water of Earth, in the tablet ofEarth.
The Queen of the Thrones of Earth.


THE FIFTEENTH KEY

ILASA! tabaanu li-El pereta, casaremanu upaahi cahisa "dareji;" das oado 
caosaji oresacore: das omaxa monasasi Baeouibe od emetajisa Iaiadix. Zodacare od Zodameranu! Odo cicale Qaa. Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.


THE FIFTEENTH KEY

O THOU, the Governor of the first Flame, under whose wings are 6739; that weave the Earth with dryness: that knowest the Great Name "Righteousness," and the Seal of Honour. Move and Appear! Unveil the mysteries of your creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God: the true worshipper of the Highest!

The Angle of Fire of Earth, in the tablet of Earth.
The Lord of the Wide and Fertile Land, the King of the
Spirits of Earth.


THE SIXTEENTH KEY

ILASA viviala pereta! Salamanu balata, das acaro odazodi busada, od 
belioraxa balita: das inusi caosaji lusadanu "emoda:" das ome od taliobe: 
darilapa iehe ilasa Mada Zodilodarepe. Zodacare od Zodameranu. Odo cicale Qaa: zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.


THE SIXTEENTH KEY

O THOU second flame, the House of Justice, which hast thy beginning in 
glory and shalt comfort the Just: which walkest upon the Earth with 8763 feet, which understand and separate creatures! Great art thou in the God of Stretch forth and Conquer. Move and appear! Unveil the mysteries of your 
Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God, the 
true worshipper of the Highest.

The Angle of Air of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Prince of the Chariot of Fire.


THE SEVENTHEENTH KEY

ILASA dial pereta! soba vaupaahe cahisa nanuba zodixalayo dodasihe od 
berinuta "faxisa" hubaro tasataxa yolasa: soba Iad "i" Vonupehe o Uonupehe: aladonu dax ila od toatare! Zoda-care od Zodameranu! Odo cicale Qaa! 
Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.


THE SEVENTHEENTH KEY

O THOU third Flame! whose wings are thorns to stir up vexation, and who 
hast 7336 living lamps going before Thee: whose God is "Wrath in Anger": Gird up thy loins and hearken! Move and Appear! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.

The Angle of Water of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Queen of the Thrones of Flame.


THE EIGHTEENTH KEY

ILASA micalazoda olapireta ialpereji beliore: das odo Busadire Oiad 
ouoaresa caosago: casaremeji Laiada "eranu" berinutasa cafafame das 
invemeda aqoso adoho Moz, od maof-fasa. Bolape como belioreta pamebeta. 
Zodacare od Zoda-meranu! Odo cicale Qaa. Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, 
hoathahe IAIDA.


THE EIGHTEENTH KEY

O THOU mighty Light and burning Flame of Comfort! that unveilest the Glory of God to the centre of the Earth, in whom the 6332 secrets of Truth have their abiding, that is called in thy kingdom "Joy" and not to be measured. Be thou a window of comfort unto me! Move and Appear! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation, be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God, the true worshipper of the highest.

The Angle of Earth of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Princess of the Shining Flame, the Rose of the
Palace of Fire.


MARK WELL!

THESE first 18 calls are in reality 19; that is, 19 in the Celestial 
Orders; but with us the first table hath no call, and can have no call, seeing
that it is of the Godhead. Thus, then, with us hath it the number of 0, 
though with them that of 1. (Even as the first key of the ROTA hath the 
number 0.)
After this follow the calls or keys of the Thirty Aires or AEthyrs: which 
are in substance similar, though, in the name of the AEthyrs, diversified.

The titles of the Thirty AEthyrs whose dominion extendedth in
ever-widening circles without and beyond the Watch
Towers of the Universe

["The first is Outermost"]
1 LIL 16 LEA
2 ARN 17 TAN
3 ZOM 18 ZEN
4 PAZ 19 POP
5 LIT 20 KHR
6 MAZ 21 ASP
7 DEO 22 LIN
8 ZID 23 TOR
9 ZIP 24 NIA
10 ZAX 25 VTI
11 ICH 26 DES
12 LOE 27 ZAA
13 ZIM 28 BAG
14 UTA 29 RII
15 OXO 30 TEX


THE CALL OR KEY OF THE THIRTY AETHYRS

MADARIATZA das perifa LIL<<Or other Aire as may be willed.>> cahisa 
macaolazoda saanire caosago od fifisa balzodizodarasa Iaida. Nonusa gohulime:
Micama adoianu MADA faoda beliorebe, soba ooaona cahisa luciftias peripesol, das aberaasasa nonusafe netaaibe caosaji od tilabe adapehaheta damepelozoda, tooata nonusafe jimicalazodoma larasada tofejilo marebe yareryo IDOIGO<<This name may be appropriately varied with the Aire.>>; od torezodulape yaodafe gohola, Caosaga, tabaoreda saanire, od caharisateosa yorepoila tiobela busadire, tilabe noalanu paida oresaba, od dodaremeni zodayolana. Elazodape tilaba pare-meji peripesatza, od ta qurelesata booapisa. Lanibame oucaho sayomepe, od caharisateosa ajitoltorenu, mireca qo tiobela lela. Tonu paomebeda dizodalamo asa pianu, od caha-risateosa aji-la-tore-torenu paracahe a sayomepe. Coreda-zodizoda dodapala od fifalazoda, lasa manada, od faregita 
bamesa omaoasa. Conisabera od auauotza tonuji oresa; catabela noasami 
tabejesa leuitahemonuji. Vanucahi ome-petilabe oresa! Bagile? Moooabe OL coredazodizoda. El capimao itzomatzipe, od cacocasabe gosaa. Bajilenu pii tianuta a babalanuda, od faoregita teloca uo uime.

Madariiatza, torezodu!!! Oadariatza orocaha aboaperi! Tabaori periazoda 
aretabasa! Adarepanu coresata dobitza! Yolacame periazodi arecoazodiore, od 
quasabe qotinuji! Ripire paaotzata sagacore! Umela od peredazodare cacareji 
Aoiveae coremepeta! Torezodu! Zodacare od Zodameranu, asapeta sibesi 
butamona das surezodasa Tia balatanu. Odo cicale Qaa, od Ozodazodama pelapeli
IADANAMADA!


THE CALL OR KEY OF THE THIRTY AETHYRS

O YE Heavens which dwell in the first Air, yea are mighty in the parts of 
the Earth, and execute the Judgment of the Highest! Unto you it is said: 
Behold the Face of your God, the beginning of Comfort, whose eyes are the 
brightness of the Heavens, which provided you for the Government of the Earth,
and her unspeakable variety, furnishing you with a power of understanding to 
dispose all things according to the Providence of Him that sitteth on 
the Holy Throne, and rose up in the Beginning, saying: The Earth, let her be 
governed by her parts, and let there be Division in her, that the glory of her
may be always drunken, and vexed in itself. Her course, let it run with the 
Heavens; and as an handmaid let her serve them. One season, let it confound 
another, and let there be no creature upon or within her the same. All her 
members, let them differ in their qualities, and let there be no one Creature 
equal with another. The reasonable Creatures of the Earth, and Men, let them vex and weed out one another; and their dwelling-places, let them forget their Names. The work of man and his pomp, let them be defaced. His buildings, let them become Caves for the beasts of the Field! Confound her understanding with darkness! For why? it repenteth me that I have made Man. One while let her be known, and another while a stranger: because she is the bed of an Harlot, and the dwelling-place of him that is fallen.

O ye Heavens, arise! The lower heavens beneath you, let them serve you! 
Govern those that govern! Cast down such as fall. Bring forth with those 
that increase, and destroy the rotten. No place let it remain in one number.
Add and diminish until the stars be numbered. Arise! Move! and appear before the Covenant of His mouth, which He hath sworn unto us in His Justice. Open the Mysteries of your Creation, and make us partakers of THE UNDEFILED KNOWLEDGE.

Finished are the Calls or Keys.


The Three Mighty Names of God
Almighty coming forth from
The Thirty AEthyrs

THE First Name ---
L A Z o d a P e L a M e D a Z o d a Z O D a Z o d I L a-
Z o d U O L a T a Z o d a P e K A L a T a N u V a D a Z-
o d a B e R e T a.

The Second Name ---
I R O A I A E I I A K O I T a X E A E O H e S I O I-
I T E A A I E.

The Third Name ---
L a N u N u Z o d a T a Z o d O D a P e X a H E M-
A O A N u N u P e R e P e N u R A I S A G I X a.

Ended are the Forty-eight Calls or Keys.

LIBER TZADDI
vel
HAMVS HERMETICVS
SVB FIGVRA
XC

A.'. A.'.
Publication in Class A.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.'. A.'.

0. In the name of the Lord of Initiation, Amen.
1. I fly and I alight as an hawk: of mother-of-emerald are my mighty-sweeping wings.

2. I swoop down upon the black earth; and it gladdens into green at my coming.

3. Children of Earth! rejoice! rejoice exceedingly; for your salvation is at hand.

4. The end of sorrow is come; I will ravish you away into mine unutterable joy.

5. I will kiss you, and bring you to the bridal: I will spread a feast before you in the house of happiness.

6. I am not come to rebuke you, or to enslave you.

7. I bid you not turn from your voluptuous ways, from your idleness, from your follies.

8. But I bring you joy to your pleasure, peace to your languor, wisdom to your folly.

9. All that ye do is right, if so be that ye enjoy it.

10. I am come against sorrow, against weariness, against them that seek to enslave you.

11. I pour you lustral wine, that giveth you delight both at the sunset and the dawn.

12. Come with me, and I will give you all that is desirable upon the earth.

13. Because I give you that of which Earth and its joys are but as shadows.

14. They flee away, but my joy abideth even unto the end.

15. I have hidden myself beneath a mask: I am a black and terrible God.

16. With courage conquering fear shall ye approach me: ye shall lay down your heads upon mine altar, expecting the sweep of the sword.

17. But the first kiss of love shall be radiant on your lips; and all my darkness and terror shall turn to light and joy.

18. Only those who fear shall fail. Those who have bent their backs to the yoke of slavery until they can no longer stand upright; them will I despise.

19. But you who have defied the law; you who have conquered by subtlety or force; you will I take unto me, even I will take you unto me.

20. I ask you to sacrifice nothing at mine altar; I am the God who giveth all.

21. Light, Life, Love; Force, Fantasy, Fire; these do I bring you: mine hands are full of these.

22. There is joy in the setting-out; there is joy in the journey; there is joy in the goal.

23. Only if ye are sorrowful, or weary, or angry, or discomforted; then ye may know that ye have lost the golden thread, the thread wherewith I guide you to the heart of the groves of Eleusis.

24. My disciples are proud and beautiful; they are strong and swift; they rule their way like mighty conquerors.

25. The weak, the timid, the imperfect, the cowardly, the poor, the tearful --- these are mine enemies, and I am come to destroy them.

26. This also is compassion: an end to the sickness of earth. A rooting-out of the weeds: a watering of the flowers.

27. O my children, ye are more beautiful than the flowers: ye must not fade in your season.

28. I love you; I would sprinkle you with the divine dew of immortality.

29. This immortality is no vain hope beyond the grave: I offer you the certain consciousness of bliss.

30. I offer it at once, on earth; before an hour hath struck upon the bell, ye shall be with Me in the Abodes that are beyond Decay.

31. Also I give you power earthly and joy earthly; wealth, and health, and length of days. Adoration and love shall cling to your feet, and twine around your heart.

32. Only your mouths shall drink of a delicious wine --- the wine of Iacchus; they shall reach ever to the heavenly kiss of the Beautiful God.

33. I reveal unto you a great mystery. Ye stand between the abyss of height and the abyss of depth.

34. In either awaits you a Companion; and that Companion is Yourself.

35. Ye can have no other Companion.

36. Many have arisen, being wise. They have said "Seek out the glittering Image in the place ever golden, and unite yourselves with It."

37. Many have arisen, being foolish. They have said, "Stoop down unto the darkly splendid world, and be wedded to that Blind Creature of the Slime."

38. I who am beyond Wisdom and Folly, arise and say unto you: achieve both weddings! Unite yourselves with both!

39. Beware, beware, I say, lest ye seek after the one and lose the other!

40. My adepts stand upright; their head above the heavens, their feet below the hells.

41. But since one is naturally attracted to the Angel, another to the Demon, let the first strengthen the lower link, the last attach more firmly to the higher.

42. Thus shall equilibrium become perfect. I will aid my disciples; as fast as they acquire this balanced power and joy so faster will I push them.

43. They shall in their turn speak from this Invisible Throne; their words shall illumine the worlds.

44. They shall be masters of majesty and might; they shall be beautiful and joyous; they shall be clothed with victory and splendour; they shall stand upon the firm foundation; the kingdom shall be theirs; yea, the kingdom shall be theirs.

In the name of the Lord of Initiation. Amen.

Liber XVIII


Part One

The Fountain of Hyacinth

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law

I, Baphomet 666, wishing to prove the strength of my will and the degree of my courage have poisoned myself for the last two years and have succeeded finally in reaching a degree of intoxication such that withdrawal of the drugs (heroin & cocaine) produce a terrible attack of the "Storm Fiend". The acute symptoms arise suddenly, usually on waking up from a nap. They remind me of the "For God's sake turn it off" feeling of having an electric current passing through one, and of the "Super-structure" of the Baltoro Glacier. The psychology is very complex and curious: I think a detailed record of my attempt at breaking the habit will be interesting and useful.

Tuesday, Feb. 14, 1922

3:40 P.M.

Left Paris for Fontainbleau. Put up at Au Cadran Bleu. Walked before dinner. No alcohol. Heroin & Cocaine at odd times till 8 P.M. Difficult to sleet. [N.B. Part of my plan in coming here is to dig up the bitter memories which have been killing me. I was so happy and hopeful here two years ago; and now my little Poupe(ace)e has been dead over a year and her little brother never came to birth; and my manhood in part is crushed]
Feb. 15.

1 1/2 tablets -- Slept till 9:30. Cafe Croissant. Struggled hard to get up but relapsed and slept till after 11. Delightful dreams.

12. Walked (lunch on warm milk) till about 3:30. Very tired. A nap. The breath of the forest hit me like a club, the moment I left the town. I felt cured of everything. I broke into a series of storms of sobbing; great relief.

4 P.M. "Storm-fiend" possessed me with terrible and unendurable violence.

4:4 A big sniff of heroin. Instant relief but very palsied. The residual symptoms abated slowly and I was normal, nearly, at 4:17. From then I got worse again slowly.

4:30 Small dose of heroin

4:40 " " "

5:15 Medium " '

5:30 Big dose. I am not suffering. The excesses are that I want to be very fit to write this record though I have practically finished for the present, and that I may as well take plenty before curfew at 7, so as to make it less difficult to do without it till Reveille at 1 PM tomorrow.

I may find it wise to limit the number of doses during the "Open Season" or to make it illegal to take a dose at all unless the "Storm-fiend" is actually on the job.

My general idea is to increase the Close Season daily by a space of one or two hours thus automatically limiting the Open Season and reaching a point when a whole physiological cycle of 24 hours. That, in my theory, would be the critical point of the cure.

6:12 PM. It seems to be no effort at all to stop cocaine right away; one returns to it from the moral impulse to "get going." This impulse appears to depend on external circumstances. Accidental necessities to be at one's best. (I am now, by the way, slightly intoxicated - by the 5 doses of the last 2 hours. I am combating my excess of hunger for the drug by Strychnine, doses of 2 mgs - and by eating. The most important part of the treatment is to keep the mind distracted. The attacks of hunger seem to be partly caused by the mental obsession and prove transient of the attention is attracted in any way.

I propose to deal with the most distressing symptoms which I have explained hitherto, viz., inability to sleep at the proper hours (with tendency to over-do sleep in the daytime) on the following principles.

1. Use of the IX' formula.

2. Hard physical exercise every day with a walk of at least half an hour before dinner.

3. Hydrotherapy if to be procured. In any case, hot bath with eau-de-cologne rub on retiring. Cold ditto on waking.

4. Alcohol on retiring.

5. Soporific in full dose as well unless asleep within 30 minutes of lying down.

My plan for tomorrow is this:

Forced wakening at 8:30. Breakfast. Bath. Walk. Lunch in forest. No heroin till 1 PM. Doses at pleasure till curfew at 6 PM.

6:30. Medium dose Heroin. This was a real indulgence in the worst sense of the word. It has occurred very frequently that I have taken a dose for reasons at present utterly unfathomable. (This is a confession indeed, for me, who claims to be the foremost living psychologist!) There is not the slightest discomfort to be removed, or the faintest wish to reach some still superior state. It is an absolutely perverse impulse. I can only compare it with similar obfuscation -- phenomena common enough in the matter of sex. Part of the explanation may be that I feel (rather there is a physiological instinct in the animal) an absurd sense of injury. An indignant assertion that it has a natural right to be active and pleasantly divorced(?) for a certain proportion of the 24 hours. 6:45. Small dose. Taken partly to prove to myself that I was not alarmed by the reflection above set down.

I note certain pathological points.

1. Increased secretions, especially mucous, indicate the physical need of the drug.

2. Slight tendency to manifest the bronchitis which introduced me to heroin.

3. I think my eyesight to be degenerated wholly since I began the experiment. Occultist, however, will not admit this; they claim that I am "doing as well as can be expected" or even a little better.

4. There has been a constantly increasing indifference to matters of ordinary health, cleanliness and vanity. I seem hardly to know what the state of affairs is, as to defecation, etc.`

5. There are numerous very alarming mental symptoms, but all really reduce to one only, the feeling that nothing is worth while. It is a sort of "philosophical laziness" rather like Falstaff's deafness "a scary slackness".

6:55 PM Medium dose. Excuse, a perverted sense of duty. The clock had struck 7. There are several audible clocks in the town and I wanted to assert my right to take a last dose between the competing chimes.

I am now "nice drunk" as Alostrael would say. The day had been one of anguish. Poupee peeped from every alley in the forest. I think of her now without the least tendency to emotion of any kind at all; it is even hard to remember that I ever regretted her for an instant.

7:7 PM An extraordinary incident has occurred. I had put a "choice cigar" in my mouth as the safest place intending to smoke it after dinner. In my mental absorption, I lit it, discovering the fact only now when it is half smoked. This sounds an absurd trifle; but it reveals a condition as serious as an actor's who should unconsciously declaim "to be or not to be" in a scene or so too early. I am economising these cigars as I cannot renew the supply in this town.

I am now not only "nice drunk" but "very drunk", not far short of "bloody drunk". My eyes are swimming, my senses singing: I feel "floppy" and I radiate beatitude of the most beatific blessedness. My middle name is Benedict; they call me Felix for short. Instead of Bildred and his friends, I am surrounded by my cronies, Sat, Chit and Ananda. I am enjoying a formless ecstasy, unsurpassed by anything in my experience. Yes: the day has been a success. I never drank a better bottle of nectar. It is all to the good that I can put no name to my rejoicing.

10:10 PM. The dinner, all unpleasing as was the menu, proved excellent. I had a glass of Noirs, perfect; and a Vieux Marc ditto. I went to No. 4 & No. 6 to look for a female primate. The best of the banal bunch was a short, sturdy creature called Paulette. I hardly feel justified in robbing Pierrete to pay her! I drank a Vieux Marc and a Cointreau -- I feel wonderfully well and deliciously tired: I am not even annoyed at the rain. I shall not be sorry to go out and get soaked to the skin and skip about in the slimy slush of the sodden forest. I am terribly sleep and have nothing on my mind. Except this: my ambition to make this record "read well" may persuade my animal to simulate all sorts of unnecessary tortures! Shame! I thought I had overcome that last infirmity of noble mind! Well, let me go to sleep over the "Bourgeois gentilhomme. I seem, by the way, to be the total antithesis of M. Jourdain. A am noble, poor, and totally disillusioned on all points. I have even ceased to protest against the fact that every step in evolution is inseparable from spasms of stupid agony: and I don't "want" anything. My will is at last -- so it seems -- free from all lust of result.

10:26. I compose myself to Moli(acg)ere.

Feb. 16.

1:00 A.M. 1/2 tablet dichlenel(?) and a glass of wine. My Moli(acg)ere became illegible within 10 minutes. Yet I am awake still, bar a doubtful half-nap of a few minutes.

The mechanism of my insomnia is extremely interesting.

Tonight conditions for sleeping were all advisable. The bed is comfortable; my fatigue is great; and normal in all respects. My body is entirely at east and my mind far from preoccupation. I cannot recall having any thoughts of any special kind, such as worries, contemplations, plans. There has been no "train of thought". What happens is this: I feel myself sinking into sleep and am at the same instant impelled to some slight physical movement, actually to seek a more comfortable position, or to scratch. The action is sufficient to remove me from the frontier of sleep. If I refuse to yield to the physical impulse it passes off; but when I again feel the sensation of approaching the Gates, it seems, not necessarily or even usually in the same shape but with increased intensity.

1:20 AM. Feeling my mental activity to have become very great. I take a second 1/2 tablet of Dial(?). This episode must have recurred dozens of times in the 2 1/2 hours of insomnia. The only identifiable thought, by the way, in that period is the wish to observe and record the phenomena in question.

1:25. I return to Moli(acg)ere.

[afterthought -- Despite the conditions, I feel very much rested, perhaps more so that if I had slept deeply throughout and been awakened accident. While writing these last entries I have felt a curious wish to confide the secret of this whole experiment to T--E-- on his arrival in the forest. I must think out why this should be.

9:12 A.M. slept all night after only 3 or 4 repetitions of the torture called Vigilium; and that despite a beginning of an asthma attack which is "my animal's" way of asking for cocaine -- Heroin which stops my bronchitis at once does not touch my asthma -- leaves it worse than before if anything. I feel fully rested, mind & body; lazy indeed but without irritation or fatigue. And I feel no temptation to take heroin in order to acquire strength enough to get up. Things could hardly seem more favorable but of course they may be the prelude to all sorts of horrors--

12:00. Awake at last after several relapses.

3:00. Very dull damp and depressing. Crawled up the Roches D'Avon (?) -- no enthusiasm, no vigor, no courage.

I note that the important part of the treatment is to increase the period of abstinence and as heroin postpones sleep the best plan would be to be very ---- about curfew and allow a little latitude to Reveille.

3:5. Small sniff

3:44. Big do. (N.B. This is my "bad day" as to cocaine and the weather, etc., etc., -- all combine to depress me.

4:18. Medium sniff.

4:27. Symptoms so far unsatisfactory. There is a dull malaise, combined lack of any interest in anything and the knowledge that cocaine would put me right at once. Cocaine is barred altogether of course. The reason is this: The hunger for it is strictly moral and a man ought to be able to master his moral passions -- Physical torture, on the other hand, simply throws the moral apparatus out of gear; one cannot blamed for committing suicide or doing any other foolish act when the pain is so strong as to prevent the manifestation of the Will altogether.

I was slightly enthusiastic, by the way, during my whole walk today -- but I felt no temptation to take any cocaine on that score. I am tempted strongly now, though, for I resent the tedium of my state. I want to smoke, eat, read, write, drink and sleep all at once; and I cannot settle to any one of these with the least enjoyment. The feeling resembles that of subconscious worry. But I am unable to worry about anything. My affairs, Leah, old memories, nothing seems to matter. I want to be able to get into some positive state of mind, no odds on what subject, and I can't. Only cocaine could help me and I won't take it.

4:59. Medium dose. My feeling is that the safest course is to arrange a mild jag; sufficient to overcome my general lassitude, which is beginning to make me open to violent suggestion to throw the whole cure overboard.

5:15. Heavy with sleep and on the verge of a "nice drunk".

5:28 Small. I did not want this dose, but I want to take 7 in the 3 hours so as not to diminish the ration too quickly. I want to take 6 doses tomorrow for prudence's sake and yet to take one less than on the previous day. If I took 6 today and 6 tomorrow, I might feel that I was failing to make progress; while tomorrow it might well be that 5 were not enough to carry me over till Saturday.

5:49. Small -- Routine -- no impulse.

6:00. Medium.

Programme for tomorrow

Reveille not before 2 PM.
Curfew 5 PM.
In case of early sleep or waking -- which may the Gods grant - I force myself to walk to Melon(?) or at least to Bois-le-Rio --

10:40 P.M. Before dinner I went to Thibault to get a small commonplace printing job done. The ignorance, stupidity and obstinacy of the specialist nearly drove me insane. At dinner I was dropping with sleep, an absolute agony of desire. Coffee and 2 Vieux Marcs revived me and I took my walk in perfectly normal circumstances not in the least intoxicated but feeling as I used to in 1896 on a bright May morning in a new suit strolling Trinity Street.

I then went to the Cafe and had 3 Mandarins (I do not mean that I committed a felony on the persons of three Chinamen of high official rank!). I practiced billiards. I have not touched a cue for two years, or been in good form for 8. I was amazed to find myself doing better than I have ever done in my life. All classes of stroke seemed equally easy. I was not trying particularly to do my best yet I ran off a break of 22 from a leave of no remarkable promise. Astounding! At this moment I feel quite normal and not a day over thirty!

I wish to note (before I forget it) that one of the nuisances connected with the legends current as to the effects of drug-taking is that one is apt to attribute any and every unpleasant symptom to addiction or abstinence. Just as the man who fell downstairs while reading George Eliot and broke his leg jumped to the conclusion that the fracture of the femur was due to the fall, so I, after a bad night and a weary walk in wet weather, wonder whether my asthma, depression and other unpleasant phenomena are due to a) lack of cocaine b) too much cocaine c) too much heroin d) too little heroin e) my Freudian attitude toward drugs f)my reaction against said attitude g) etc. h) etc.

The fundamental trouble about drugs is then that they tend to obsess me, just as in the days of Christianity people always referred anything that happened to the prophecies in Daniel, Matthew XXIV, or the Apocalypse!

These considerations, however, have this effect at least: that I am no longer in the least anxious about my alleged addition, my imminent insomnia, or anything else. There is yet, I regret to say, one super-subtle whisper: "Is not your freedom from apprehension a `devise of the Devil' to induce you to disdain your manifold precautions and to go on the loose in order to show your superiority to the whole situation?"

Just so: This is a case for putting into practice by old rule -- "When in doubt, stick to the letter of your resolution and never mind the spirit." I may be free from all danger of being enslaved by drugs; I may be making myself absurd by going on with my "cure" but I shall keep my rules for the sake of keeping them -- without lust of result.

11:11 P.M. Well, that's off my chest. (I wish the phlegm was!). I shall need some -------- till I happen to go to sleep -- Goodnight everybody!

Feb. 17.

I slept at once, woke at 3 for a few minutes, woke back up at 5:15, slept again till nearly 12. There has been a lot of violent sweating. I am now very slack still, despite the length of the rest.

2:10. Medium. Had been feeling very badly, chilled, empty etc. some relief -- not complete.

2:24 P.M. Big. This put me at ease but I was aware of an absurd wish to let myself go. The wish had no rational basis, positive or negative -- it seemed principally due to the spirit of revolt against restriction.

2:25. T--- E--- not at station -- I began the walk along the crest back to Fountainbleu.

3:05. Medium.

4:00 " No need but I don't want to risk the loss of prestige involved in having to go back on my programme.

4:21. I now feel in first class shape all round. I walk briskly, blithely and have a ridiculous feeling I must be "looking my best"--

4:32 Small.

4:55 Big -- The result of this dose was (apparently) that I was suddenly overcome with somnolence. I can hardly keep my eyes open. I must lie down.

5:00 No: the feeling passes off to some extent.

Tomorrow programme

Reveille -- 1:30 PM
Curfew -- 4 PM
Doses -- 5

I know that I am not diminishing very rapidly. But I have organized and restricted the business. Last night's natural sleep was a big stride! I find the mirror justifies my impression that I am looking like an exceptionally handsome winner of the Diamond Sculls, whose love is returned by the loveliest lady alive --

6:15. I'm not quite "nice drunk". This is as it should be. A few more nights like last night ought to clear up the worst of the nervous exhaustion. N.B. The cigar episode of Wednesday repeated itself!

8:38 After dinner walk cut short by a very severe fit of shivering -- the worst I have had since malarial --------- was my long suit. I refuse to admit that a little heroin would put me right.

10:50. Slept instantly but woke about 10:30 with fierce thirst, skin dry and burning, etc.

11:58. Nearly asleep -- sweating heavily.

Feb. 18.

7:00 A.M. Woke fresh & fit though very uncomfortable the bed and my sheet being drenched with sweat! had no idea -- despite much experience of malaria in such places as Rangoon that such quantities of perspiration could be produced by so small a person! The quality offers no prospect of my betting a contract with Houbignet.

12:00. I slept off and on all morning while my sheet dried on the radiator.

1 & 1:34. Big- A tremendous relief, though I can hardly say from what! It seems as if my symptoms were becoming uniform. I have had dyspepsia, fever, bronchitis, asthma, rheumatic pains, tendency to headache, etc. The trouble is that if it were not for knowing about heroin I should have accepted any one of these as the natural lot of mankind and treated it accordingly. As it is, I suspect "suppression" to be at the root of anything abnormal.

2 & 2:01. Medium. Heavy rain: it would be stupid to go out walking as I have not a Barberry or a change of clothes and in view of two nights of violent fever. Yet I suspect myself of exaggerating the rain as an excuse for relaxing my regime. This is all absurdly over-honest; the good point is the proof that I am taking the cure seriously, the bad one that it shows a tendency to scare. But in a case of this port it is an error on the right side to be slow to make excuses.

2:34. This is true, although at first sight silly; that all unpleasant symptoms, diverse as they may be, depart unceremoniously on the arrival of Heroin. The converse proÿosition (is it converse, obverse, contrapositive or what? My logic is rusty) thus appears tenable: that the symptoms arise from a single cause, the withdrawal of the drug. Why then do I not get more symptoms still? Obviously enough: the action of the heroin is to prevent one's natural tendencies to illness from manifesting. I can well understand (in this light) the claim made for opium that addicts are practically immune from most types of disease. If, then, one could be sure of not abusing such drugs, it might be a tenable thesis that their use prolongs life (Excuse me if I distrust the above remarks! May not such thoughts be the scouts of my soul's enemies?! I might easily change my plan of campaign, aiming to limit my doses instead of suppressing them. The next step would be to employ ---------- to enlarge the limit, or at least to become careless so that I slid back into the way of taking dose whenever I felt like it.

I think it very important for humanity to set down all these subtleties; it has never been properly done either by an artist or a psychologist. I am not sorry that I undertook the experiment. These mental analyses have analogies in other departments. They will be extremely useful to the young Yogi, for example.

2 & 2:53. Medium. I must make a point of analyzing the precise motives that operate the actual decision at any moment as to when and how much I take. I observe, by the way, that the above entry is accompanied by a moral collapse. Such analysis strikes me as damnable difficult; and I instinctively cry out for a stenographer to save me the trouble of writing and a dose of cocaine to brace me up to the intellectual fatigue.

2:58. I see one difficulty about this `cure' which reminds me of Russell and his `zigazgginess'. Suppose I succeed in ------ moral tone. I am liable to discover it to be my "duty" to spurn this campaign as selfish and trivial and to sacrifice myself to humanity (or something pompous and piggish of the kind) by going off to establish the Law aided by adequate doses. I can think of about a million artful arguments of this kind. The sole rebuttal is -- as in learning concentration of any sort -- to stick to the letter of the law without lust of result. I must emphasize this danger to the utmost; I have seen too often in the past how one can become obsessed by some ordered mass of ideas which are utterly irrefutable and yet are the flimsiest falsehoods when once they are set aside. The moral quality required to do so is Resolute Stupidity; it is his possession of this that has made the Englishman master of the world. It is the infiltration of the poison of intelligence that is reducing him to a national rabbit. Tommy Adkins is immeasurably superior to a Chink -- like Confucius; if not, by what right does Brittania rule the waves?

I have made one gigantic stride toward recovery. I have regained my belief in myself as a World Force. Despite the general indifference to things at large which still leaves me without magnetism, I am genuinely interested in this record and think it will prove one of the most important documents offered to psycho-pathology.

3:26. I am calculating the best way to use my last two doses. I feel no need of anything. As on previous days at this stage; and the reason in taking them is as before. Yet I am haunted by the anguish of further diminution -- I think: Hadn't I better take two big doses as late as possible, so as to suffer less before Reveille tomorrow? As against this: hadn't I better advance the time and diminish the amounts, so as to force myself to fight through as much suffering as possible -- get used to it, like eels to being skinned? For as I have hitherto managed to keep strictly to my programme, I am getting to feel confident that my pride will help me out in a pinch.

The final argument is this: let me be careful not to be overcareful. There is danger in attaching too much importance to the matter. On the other hand, no danger is so great as over-confidence; if I get careless, good-night! The bottom of the business is the dear old occult bottom -- to work without lust of result. One must act with all the ardor and integrity possible; yet with indifference, as if one had no interest in the upshot.

3 & 3:38. Medium. I took this dose with very marked reluctance. I am tempted to stop brutally. "To hell with the beastly stuff" is my reaction.

I am quite uncertain whether to regard this attitude as a symptom of moral convalescence or as a subtly false attempt of the subconscious craving to trick me into rashness. It is certainly wise to repudiate both claims and to maintain the letter of the Law.

While wring this, I observe a powerful undertow of craving. The effect of the dose seems to have been to make me eager to continue the drug with enthusiasm. [This effect, by the way, is exceptionally well reached when taking cocaine.] Now what may one deduce from this? Is it that the stimulus, consciously resented, is subconsciously demanded?

It seems that the gain in power, the return towards the normal, gives one confidence in one's mastery of oneself? In other words, is one ---------- there is a marked confusion of thought in my mind on this point. I feel acutely that I am not expressing myself well and that I am not clear about what I wish to express. This suggests that I must be "drilling near the nerve" of some complex. My mind is simply bewildered. I don't know how to formulate my question properly. I am aware of a sort of shame or embarrassment. I seems as if my mind wanted to evade the analysis and take refuge in deliberate obfuscation. This is, of course, what regularly happens to the average man whenever confronted by any moral problem. He thinks with confused consternation on such subjects as religion, morality and disease because his fear of what might happen to him is so vast and so vague -- this inhibition has been responsible for all the (ignorance?) which has disgraced the history of the race.

3:58. Medium. The final dose was taken with a certain anguish which I instantly recognized as saying "all very well for today! but what about tomorrow when the limit is 4 doses?" This sounds absurd as 3 doses have so far put me all right. But I am thinking of the question of cumulative counter poisoning, and I feel a passionate impulse to break down at this very moment, to "go on the bust, regardless" -- Yet the thought of taking another dose is repugnant. The last has not made me feel any better; it has simply dizzied me and fulled me with querulous impatience. It has stopped raining, I think; I will go out and if too wet, try what a Mandarin and an hour with a cue will do for me.

4:14. Just a note before going out -- I am not nearly "nice drunk" I am glad to say -- But I am tremendously encouraged by the thought that this record will be a model which may serve men to work out their own mastery of "habits" without compulsion or assistance.

5:40. It was too wet to walk. I call to witness the umbrellas of the indigenous. I went book-buying and proof inspecting; in the shop I nearly collapsed. Fresh air restored me. I went billiard playing and Mandarin drinking. My billiards was again admirably astonishing. I was then overcome by sleepiness; decided to go home & lie down. I had a violent impulse to vomit; but after a --------- I felt perfectly well again and the somnolence resumed its sway.

5:55. It is worthy of remark that my regiment seems to have restored my "drug- virginity" so called by writers on the subject. The fact is that most of the fixed ideas about drugs are superstitious. I have long observed this fact with regard to a great many. But the more I learn, the danger is the rubble- heap of accepted statements. For instance, with ether, hashish, mescal, opium-smoking and morphine, I find no tendency to habit whatever. More still, I am unable to force myself to use these drugs at all, except on the rarest occasions. Yet I have nothing but the most pleasant and profitable experiences in connection with them. With heroin & cocaine, on the contrary, I have not much to thank them for; and there has been a good deal of annoyance connected with them. Yet it is for these and these only that I hanker. I begin to have a grave suspicion that there is a masochistic complex at the bottom of all this: "a will to suffer", integral with the sense of "sin" which accounts for the popularity of humiliating creeds such as Christianity in all its forms among degenerate races -- (I include such infantile wish-fulfillment phantasm reactions as "Christian Science' among those morbid phenomenon.

6:30 I have been noticing in myself a tendency to irritability and suspiciousness. It is not very acute or very persistent; but it is sufficient to be evidence of a state of mind exceptionally foreign to my assertion -- acquired habit of thought. It has appeared by fits and starts during some months.

6:44. Programme for Sunday.

Reveille 1:00 PM
Curfew 3:00 PM
Doses 4

As adjuncts: strychnine appears of great use physically. I think I will try emphasizing this in the two or 3 hours before Reveille. Alcohol is a decided moral aid; but I suspect it of lessening physiological resistance unless one is careful to restrict it scope to assisting appetite and digestion or promoting sleep. I am somewhat astonished to notice how prolonged by lethargy is. The impulse is to be alarmed; but Nature knows best. This is Her way, presumably, of replenishing the resistance.

7:00. A curious incident took place before dinner. After leaving my room, I thought of my supply of cocaine -- was it safe? I went back, assured myself of its integrity -- and that of the servants thereof -- and put it back with elaborate precautions against a grain of it reaching my anatomy. I now wonder whether this action was dictated by the subconscious wish to take some.

8:8. I dined slowly on light food in great moderation and was instantly impelled to violent and voluminous vomiting. Painless, almost pleasant. It leaves me, like the previous entry -- doubtful as to whether this, too, is not a "device of the demon. Yet there is ample explanation elsewhere -- I was reading the life of Lord Russell of Killoween by R. Barry O'Brien. Perhaps this sickness has saved my life.

8:50. I feel as if another shivering fit were about due, so I get to bed and take 3 gr. Quinine.

9:50. The shivering was avoided. I feel generally washed out, neither tired, sleepy, hungry nor anything else. My thoughts are similarly colorless. For instance, I wonder, without interest, whether I might die before morning.

11:36. I now feel quiet and comfortable but rather bored.

Feb. 19.

1:11 AM Throat congested, stomach irritated, sleep coy; will take 1/2 tablet dialcura(?) 11:53 (?) a second 1/2 tablet then sleep till nearly 9 and dozes till 11:30.

Suffering acutely from dyspepsia, eyes watering, yawning, lassitude, etc. I suppose this is the cumulative trouble: I have arrears of my daily ration to make up. I must admit a very strong temptation to break my rules not by artifice but by sheer weariness of the struggle. Shouldn't be surprised if today was a severe test of the treatment. If I break down, it is obvious I need alien aid. It upsets and weakens me that I have no news of 31-666-31.

1+ 1:1 PM. Lunch and strychnine helped out but I was glad when Reveille came. Big 1.

2+ 1:21. Big. I didn't really want this but I'm "hopping mad clear through" today about nothing. I had no letters. It is now cold weather. I am upset about all sorts of things and I can't put names to them. I expect a brisk walk would put me in good condition.

1:50. Feeling particularly well after a short stroll. Returned for my sweater as it is very cold.

3+ 2:20.

4+ 3:00

4:44 Back from a really good long fast walk. Feeling very much better. By a curious paradox I want to break the regimen so as to make better best! However, I made certain considerations as follows: Having been busy reducing the doses, I have not been able to extend the intervals. I wanted to advance the hour of curfew so as to avoid heroin insomnia. But I may not go on the other track. I will maintain curfew at 3 and make Reveille later.

e.g. [moon] Reveille 1:30 -- 3 doses

[mars] 2:40 -- 2 doses

[mercury] 3:0 1 dose.

It is no plan of my plan to drop from one dose to none until I have reached the interval of 48 hours. The only permissible alternative to making my one- dose days 25 hours long is this: to replace the heroin on alternate days by cocaine. The objection to the whole scheme is this; that the hour of taking the dose always approaches bedtime while it is most desirable (on the contrary) for it to be as early as possible. Suppose, however, I extend the two-dose period in this way: 1 dose on waking, the other at 3:00 PM and extend the interval by advancing curfew to 2, 1, noon, and reducing to one dose when the times coincide. This scheme has the advantage of changing the physiological cycle which compensates (I think) for the temporary reduction of the interval which it is desired to extend.

5:00 I may observe that I am recovering to a great extent my normal healthy interest in ordinary affairs and also that I am not in the least suspicious as to my motives in making the above entry. I feel, in fact, quite considerable confidence in myself -- for the first time -- Indeed, I should have little hesitation for my own sake in going on the loose entirely: I refrain from doing so because it would apparently ------ my record.

8:42. Dined rather well; feel all right, bar a tendency to indigestion. But I observe that my virile reaction to various matters is renewed like the Eagle's and a pretty nasty tempered Eagle at that. I find myself wanting an "eye for an eye" from certain people.

11:20. Heroin was (note from S. Roberts--he has either been drinking because his handwriting begins to sprawl also he does not record taking anything) originally prescribed for my bronchitis. It stops an attack in a few seconds. Now I have spent this evening fighting the aforesaid malady with compresses and pastilles, obtaining practically no relief.

Am I morally justified in resorting to heroin out of business hours? If it were a moral question the problem would be pertinent; but it is not: I am making a purely scientific experiment with no moral implications soever; there is therefore no difficulty whatever in deciding to abstain. I mention this as an example of the astounding simplifications effected by referring all questions of conduct to the Law of Thelema.

There is nevertheless a `critical temperature': I should take the heroin if not to do so would spoil the record in any case: for example, if the spasms of coughing increased so as to endanger life. The use of drugs in such an extremity would indeed form a pertinent episode in the experiment.

Feb. 20.

12:20 AM I am making a regular St. Patrick's Night of it. Throat trouble with phlegm standing like the Old Guard and fever, insomnia, etc. on top; my mind surging with phantasms of projects of various sorts -- persistent, but without alacrity or ability to hold my interest. There is no definite drug hunger; but I suspect my quite indefinable symptoms to be in reality so many "legal arguments" of the body, too cunning to complain frankly what it wants.

1:11 AM. Nothing for it but a Dialcuria(?) once more.

2 AM. One spasm follows another each ending in complete exhaustion. I have tried inhaling eau de cologne: no good. I will make one last stand at Fort Vaux.

2:31. Useless sacrifice of human life. Retire on second line. Ils me passeront pas.

1+ Relief very slight.

2+ 2:36. Medium -- almost calm.

3+ 2:45. Medium

I could almost certainly have cut short the attack with less trouble if I had not let it go so far. I am "all in" from exhaustion, every muscle aching from the strain -- breath still quick and laboured -- traces of phlegm still in throat.

3:7. Practically "all better" though frightfully tired. A noticeable phenomena is a keen ambition to write a play in French verse! (Suggested, probably, by picking up my pocket Tartuffe).

3:18. I shall consider myself provisionally as having "borrowed" the three doses due today and pay them back if practicable by total abstention till Tuesday 2:30 PM. I thing also I shall go to Paris on Tuesday and ask Dr. E--- G----- how best to combat these emergency attacks; it should be worth while now that I know more or less what to expect.

5:2. Awoke with access of spasms more violent than before. As soon as I get respite enough to control my muscles at all.

4+ Med. I have been asleep dreaming voluptuously and planning various projects in my puppet show.

5+ 5:11 Med. Also I have been sweating violently.

6+ 5:23. Still in the woods.

9:00 AM. Woke very succinctly, my chest still raw and distressed, but a voice in my ears, clear as ever came to me in my life and apropos of nothing: NOTJZJB

Now the Yi had indicated this before and I had found excuses to dodge it. I don't like the idea even now since fully awake. But I have cleared up the Fontainbleau formula about Poupe(ace)e, I think, with Mark Twain's story "The Fine Loom of Life" (?) and NOTJZJP means (twitching my mantle blue?) "Weep no more, gentle shepherd, weep no more." offers the best possible conditions for the rest of my cure, including the IX' -- XI' remedy and is in all ways rationally indicated. With my habitual prudence, ask Thelema for an oracle. I bet VIII I.53. The applicability of the passage may or may not be discernible by those who are not initiates of the VI' of O.T.O. It may involve my death, as "an enchantment to unbind the bound."

9:36. I am a little calmer now I am sitting up in bed. By the way, I had a strong "hunch" last night to play a libel action against Arnold Bennett for the "Paris Nights" reference worked out in a friendly spirit to gain publicity. On this point Thelema says CCXXX I.50 end of verse. Doubtful: the suggestion seems to be no to let Bennett know what is going on.

Mad with Leah for not having written. Went out about 10 and started for forest before 11. Shored away from golf course. Exhausted by night's struggle; much residual cough and soreness as well as fatigue. A fine day and a fresh, cool invigorating wind; but I could hardly drag one leg after the other -- I make no apology for

7+ 1:04 PM. Medium.

8+ 1:21 PM " 9+ 1:36 PM "

10+ 1:58 PM Small. Crawled in, still weak, about 2:30 PM.

11+ 3:22 PM Wire and letters from Leah.

3:40. eyes keep closing with sleep.

5:00 PM. A nap, interrupted by a fool bell and the waking hideous with a bronchial clinch. I have so shame in going for it at once with old friend cocaine -- partly as a change from the heroin and partly because it seems possible that it will touch the spot better. The first small sniff does indeed seem to clear the matter up remarkable; but I will go and see if the chemist can find me some balm in Gilead.

1.2+ Two small cocaines. Note that in all this business there has not been the slightest conscious "hunger and thirst for mightiness sake" but sheer physical distress and believe me kid I know my -------- from my elbow by this time.

The two little cocaine sniffs have removed the lump from my chest and throat for the first time in 15 hours or so. The sinister circumstance is that this is "just a week today since my Coco went away and its all up with poor Tommy now!" I shall put the case before Cros fully and meanwhile run along and ask the chemist if he can suggest some patent pulmonary purgative and promise me a purple plenitude of serene slumber, stainless of bronchial trouble, immune from the perfidious and frustrating pangs of intercostal inhibition, of respiratory reluctances. the bane of bronchial burdens, the curse of my cantankerous(?) chest, (and please observe how instantly the cocaine settles itself in my style. The last few phrases, redundant rubbish -- flagged. Normally, I should have diagnosed that another dose was due, and loaded some more alliterations and parenthesis on my ------- back!)

5:24. I do take a third; but that is only to complete the exodus to Boulevard Reulet(?) from the impasse inferno. (Note - corrections and cross corrections -- the rest is illegible) --

3+ 5:28. The Third Coco

Interesting to note that just 23 years ago -- early in '99 I was saving Allen Bennett from his cycle of asthma, opium, morphine, cocaine, chloroform, exhaustion, asthma -- recurring, (it took from 1 to 2 months to make the round trip) by sending him out to Ceylon. Perhaps I made some good Karma when I saved my master's life (at the risk of my own as it happened) perhaps some one I never thought of may be on the way to save mine.

4+ 5:35. To cap the pyramid.

8:38 PM. I had a long delightful talk with a charming little chemist, bought some iodine to paint my chest and some ether in case of a bad night, played a little billiards, read some more Nordmann, drank some hot milk, ate a small piece of bread, wrote Nordmann and P.S. to plead my sanity -- and took several 5+ more sniffs of cocaine and one of heroin! I did this dire deed quite deliberately. I seemed not worth while to (?) my "fall from grace" but to treat the situation frankly, get myself into a state of mind and body such that I could look at it from the outside. Attempts to alternate the assassination and trammel up his consequences would have been pitiful, inviting insincerity. My plan is to begin again tomorrow, with the week's experience to guide me as to what is wise. It is clear, for instance, that I can cut out the cocaine completely without fear of being distressed and that I can start with a two hour spell of 4 doses of heroin; having this advantage, too, that I can make Reveille my time of waking which well ensure early rising.

I am quite satisfied with strychnine to avert collapse and to control craving. I am confident of my ability to adjust the hours of "indulgence" cleverly enough to keep the "Storm-fiend" from the door. I can rely on quinine in case of fever. My one weak spot is the original emphysema -- asthma -- bronchitis; and I must find a sure fortress against their ferocity, which was solely responsible for the present "regrettable incident." E ---- G ---- will probably be able to help there; and I dare say my own iodine and other defenses may turn out impregnable. I am quite contented with my week's work and proud that all moral attacks were detected and defeated. My sole uneasiness is as to whether the severe physical assault had not a Freudian basis. To that suggestion I reply with some conviction that fever and vomiting were natural effects of the general strain ( as I have seen often in past years) and that last night may well be set down to my imbecile conduct in sitting on a damp log in an incipient drizzle after a long cold walk in a heavy sweater to watch thirty "mudded oafs".

I blame myself, however, for carelessness in (a) observing my physiological state in several obvious ways (b) keeping the rules of hygiene and therapy, even those formally laid down in this record (c) forcing myself to follow the prescribed course when unwise, e.g. getting up and going out with a fever on me.

I am pleased with the frankness and conscientiousness of this record; I think it full and free from all self-deception, stupidity, or cowardice. I think it accesses justly the dangers, difficulties, and determination which apply to the case. I feel that it has helped me and will help others to audit accounts; and I am sure that the week's teaching shows a good profit, judged either by the figures themselves or by my demeanor and appearance. Unfortunately there are no figures for the week previous but my memory is quite clear that I have been taking heroin continuously fro many weeks; three or four doses to help me get up and others practically all day at short intervals. As to cocaine, I must have had at least two or three prolonged bouts of it every week, plus a few "hairs of the dog" on most of the "off days". Most of my mental and moral powers were seriously affected in various ways while I was almost wholly dependent on them for physical energy, in particular for sexual force, which only appeared after unusual excesses, complicated by abnormal indulgence in alcohol. My creative life had become spasmodic and factitious -- I could not even take interest in any kind of work; what I did was forced, feeble and ill sustained, dependent on drastic drugging even at that. I could not even face the task of dictating important letters and shrank from contact with business of all kinds. I could take no pleasure even in eating or drinking except when more savagely spurred by the stimulants that usual. I had become incapable of all human reaction, from love and self respect to hatred and self preservation. I avoided washing, dressing, shaving, as much as possible. I was unable to count money properly, to inspect bills and so on; everything bored me. I could not even feel alarm at obviously serious symptoms. My memory, though reliable, was very dull. I refused to make any efforts.

It strikes me as astonishing that so complete a cachexia as this should not have been accompanied by the slightest psychical disturbance! I had no traces of hallucination or persecution-mania, no tendency to duplicity or concealment, no delusions or defects of judgment; not one (in short) of the classical psychoses which occur normally in cases far less grave in other ways than mine. This is especially strange in view of the fact that I had been subjected to extreme mental worry of many kinds for many months and that I had lost entirely the faculty of sleep which ensued only on (a) extreme exhaustion, say after fifteen hours of painting and dictation, followed by perhaps 6 hours sexual frenzy (b) hypnotics such as vernol. reinforced by desperate determination to sleep or (c) heroic doses of strong alcoholic drinks, absinthe, brandy, or hot rum.

Yet I have not even had so much as one unpleasant dream. The only suspicious symptom has been occasional feelings of irritation, disproportionate to the exciting cause, and of undue anxiety to avoid allusions to subjects liable to annoy me. That I should have been able to get back so nearly to normal good health -- on all planes -- in a single week: this seems to me almost miraculous by the sombre standards of the text books on drug neuroses.

10:40 PM. The above entry is a fair example of what I can do when thoroughly drunk on a mixture of heroin and cocaine. But it should be compared with a similar effort last month. Tonight I am clear, calm; not too verbose, redundant, detailed or frenetic. The basis of the entry is mental and moral health. I write what I want to write, without excitement or effort. The drugs merely inhibit my inhibitions. On previous occasions, one may observe on insane intensity, an impatient fury. There is a delirious outburst and I am enraged at my slowness and my lack of mastery. Tonight there is none of this. I fell myself in full control of my faculties. Also there is no impulse to appeal to the drugs to "drive like the devil". I no longer crave to push on from one piece of work to another. Before, I have "speeded up" Pegasus though I have had no idea where I want to go. The result has been that I have often spent a furious night with the Hounds of Hell, hunting some horrible hyena in the dark across sterile sands; I have finished the work for the sake of which I started drugging myself and gone on with some quite useless stuff like "Limericks" or some shapeless, idealess ranting ruins of obscure and obscene turgidity. Mine inmost identity says: To worship me take wine and strange drugs whereof I will tell my prophet and be drunk thereof:" it is lawful to do this, for to worship Him is to make him manifest, and so to fill the world with Truth and Beauty. But I have erred in going to far; the worship has become forced and fallen into fanatical frenzy which blasphemes Him. He bids us also to "exceed by delicacy" to "drink by the eight and ninety rules of art"; but I have exceeded by depravity and drunk by the three hundred and ninety three rules of the toper. He gives his guarantee that this wine, these drugs, will not harm me; but the condition is obviously that expressed above. I must justify Him (and myself) by making myself unchallengable master of these "means of grace". I must be as capable of using them, and as confident in my capacity, as an engineer is of handling high explosives; and every piece of work undertaken with the aid of these tools, must prove by its perfection that his precepts and his promises are wrought by Righteousness and tested by Truth.

In the past, despite my errors and excesses, these Orgia have brought me beyond all previous human attainments and I must not fear to follow the flag and fight the good fight with all my might. But I must not get an arrow in my eye, like Harold of Hastings, and so lose control of my English that they break out of their lines, drunken with victory, fall into disorder, and perish beneath the lances of the invaders.

For the present, then, I must pursue my plan of suppressing the use of drugs altogether. That duly done, I must lay down those "eight and ninety rules of art" and keep them. I must be able to use heroin and cocaine as adequately and masterly as Rembrandt used his paints. One should not swear a nocturne with Rose Madder because one likes the colour!

In practice, then, I go to bed instead of continuing this persistent prating. 11:53 PM. So yes proclaim altogether! (I will NOT disgrace this record by giving it the title "Hero versus Heroin").

Feb. 21

12:01AM I have painted my chest and throat with iodine. The last of the phlegm seems to have come away. I don't expect to sleep soon with all this stuff in me, in spite of last night's struggle and the shortness of the final sleep. But my programme for the day is this:

on waking: Caf(ace)e and croissant
the first even hour: Reveille
Two hours later: Curfew
Four doses of heroin. No cocaine.

In case of physical trouble, treat symptoms as they arise without narcotics. Walk in forest if fine.

(Provided money arrives)

4:26 to Paris

Dine with Laverne (?)

Look for partner for IX': on no account have anything to do with 31-666-31 unless the magnetic conditions are totally reversed. Use partner aforesaid when found. Sleep early: wake early and repeat Tuesday's programme: but 1 1/2 hours heroin in 3 doses.

Thursday ditto but 1 hour & 2 doses.

Friday ditto but 1 dose on waking.

Saturday ditto but 1 hour after waking.

Sunday ditto but 2 hours after waking.

Monday ditto but 3 hours after waking.

1+ 12:30 PM

2+ 1:00 PM Medium

3+ 1 (No entry)

4:44 PM. Vos(?) Paris. It has been a hard day. Chest never really free, moral confusion, etc. Damp and dull. Had to use one or two extra heroin. Letter form Algiers (?) Camille is there. What about journey? Last night I had excited visions of your Epinal without reference to Camille, vague phantasms of a marriage (suggested by seeing one yesterday) and playing chess (next two lines gibberish)

PARABASIS

March 6

11:30 PM. Lea left last night for London. Awake till after 6 AM. Then deep sleep (after much Nortyl) till 2 PM when Boucier(?) woke me with difficulty. Heroin and a little cocaine. Vomited just before dinner. This whole period since my return to Paris can be summarized "From Bad to Worse". Lea is a violent spiritual poison to me. We love deeply and truly, we sympathize, we do all we can to help each other; but we act on each other like cancer. It's the formula of the independent growth in one flesh. Already I feel a new man; I have even the direct sensation that I am "cured". I wrote to Dr. Edward Cros last night telling him the whole story and asked him to call and fix a sanatorium for me where I can direct my own treatment. To submit to medical treatment would be to destroy my whole theory and blaspheme the Gods whose chosen minister I am!

I have been morally paralyzed by Leah's presence. I will now begin a new diary describing the completion of my mastery of myself in the matter of heroin and cocaine.

March 7.

2:10 AM Sleep still coy. (The rest of this short entry is incomprehensible and unimportant)

2:30 Impressed upon me strongly that I must "go to Epinol" i.e. by -------

March 8 (in pencil)

3:21 AM. heard from ---- and --------- A foul means of filth from a Detroit garbage-can. Evening with Aimee.

4:50 PM Couldn't sleep till after 6 AM. Woke now.

9:30 PM. Bright and lively till 8:30 then weighted down with weariness. Will take Nortyl till I sleep. Must call on Edward Cros at 2:30 PM tomorrow. March 9.

Saw Cros (Method: Nortyl, slept till 1:30 AM. Took more Nortyl and was picked(?) up at 11 AM.) He prescribes luminal and Dicome - les - Bains (air) near Geneva. Dr. Bornums(?) I feel better already!

(Last entry)

In back of book in A.C.'s hand:

February 12, 1922 Paris

This is the last will and testament of me Edward Alexander Crowley. I revoke all previous wills. I give and bequeath the whole of my property to Leah Hirsig (of New York, N.Y. U.S.A. and Cefal(acg)u, Sicily) and I appoint her my sole executrix.

signed: Edwd. Alex. Crowley

A note on flyleaf says: "In case I die before getting this will duly executed, get two people who were in Paris on the date to sign as witnesses, after finding out from a lawyer - without explaining the circumstances - exactly how it should by done.

93 93/93

666

A
HANDBOOK OF GEOMANCY

[THIS MS. is now first printed from the private copies of certain adepts, after careful examination and collation. It is printed for the information of scholars and the instruction of seekers. By the order of the A.'. A.'. certain formulae have been introduced into it, and omissions made, to baffle any one who may seek to prostitute it to idle curiosity or to fraud. Its practical use and the method of avoiding these pitfalls will be shown to approved students by special authority from V.V.V.V.V. or his deligates.] {137}

A.'. A.'. Publication in Class B.
Issued by Order:

D.D.S. 7 Degree = 4 Square
O.S.V. 6 Degree = 5 Square
N.S.F. 5 Degree = 6 Square


"Direct not thy mind to the vast surfaces of the earth; for the Plant of Truth grows not upon the ground. Nor measure the motions of the Sun, collecting rules, for he is carried by the Eternal Will of the Father, and not for your sake alone. Dismiss from your mind the impetuous course of the Moon, for she moveth always by the power of Necessity. The progression of the Stars was not generated for your sake. The wide aerial flight of birds gives no true knowledge, nor the dissection of the entrails of victims; they are all mere toys, the basis of mercenary fraud: flee from these if you would enter the sacred paradise of piety where Virtue, Wisdom, and Equity are assembled." --- ZOROASTER

{138}

                                          .---------------.

                                          : M A C A N E H :

                                          : A R O L U S E :

                                          : D I R U C U N :

                                          : A L U H U L A :

                                          : S E R U R O C :

                                          : U N E L I R A :

                                          : L U S A D A M :

                                          .---------------.

{Illustration goes here. This is a drawing by Austin Osmond Spare of an anthropomorphic figure with a leaping wolf inside. There is a distorted face beneath the wolf, at about the position of the hip or genitalia.}
{140}

              A HANDBOOK OF GEOMANCY   CHAPTER I

ATTRIBUTIONS OF GEOMANTIC FIGURES TO PLANETS,  ZODIAC, AND RULING GENII

.---.------.-----.-----.---.-------------------.----------.---------.-------.

:---:SIGN  :EL.  :GEOM.:SEX:  NAME AND MEANING : GENIUS   :  RULER  :PLANET :

:   :      :     : FIG.:   :                   :          :         :       :

:---+------+-----+-----+---+-------------------+----------+---------+-------:

: 1 :Aries :Fire :  *  : M.:       Puer        :Malchidael:Bartzabel:Mars   :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :   Boy, yellow,    :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :     beardless     :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 2 :Taurus:Earth:  *  : F.:      Amissio      : Asmodel  :Kedemel  :Venus  :

:   :      :     : * * :   :Loss, comprehended :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :      without      :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 3 :Gemini: Air : * * : M.:       Albus       : Ambriel  :Taphthar-:Mercury:

:   :      :     : * * :   :   White, fair     :          : tharath :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 4 :Cancer:Water: * * : F.:      Populus      :  Muriel  :Chashmo- :Moon   :

:   :      :     : * * :   : People, congreg-  :          :  dai    :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :      ation        :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 5 : Leo  :Fire : * * : M.:   Fortuna Major   : Verchiel : Sorath  :Sun    :

:   :      :     : * * :   : Greater fortune,  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :greater aid, safe- :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   : guard entering    :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 6 : Virgo:Earth: * * : F.:    Conjunctio     : Hamaliel :Taphthar-:Mercury:

:   :      :     :  *  :   :   Conjunction,    :          : tharath :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :    assembling     :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 7 : Libra: Air :  *  : M.:      Puella       :  Zuriel  : Kedemel :Venus  :

:   :      :     : * * :   : A girl, beautiful :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 8 :Scor- :Water: * * : F.:      Rubeus       : Barchiel :Bartzabel:Mars   :

:   :pio   :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :   Red, reddish    :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

: 9 :Sagit-:Fire : * * : M.:     Acquisitio    :Advachiel :Hismael  :Jupiter:

:   :tarius:     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :Obtaining, compre- :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :  hending without  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:10 :Capri-:Earth:  *  : F.:      Carcer       : Hanael   :Zazel    :Saturn :

:   :corn  :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :  A prison, bound  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:11 :Aquar-:Air  : * * : M.:    Tristitia      : Cambiel  :Zazel    :Saturn :

:   :ius   :     : * * :   : Sadness, damned,  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :      cross        :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:12 :Pisces:Water:  *  : F.:     Laetitia      : Amnixiel :Hismael  :Jupiter:

:   :      :     : * * :   :  Joy, laughing,   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   : healthy, bearded  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

.---.------.-----.-----.---.-------------------.----------.---------.-------.
{141}
ATTRIBUTIONS OF GEOMANTIC FIGURES TO PLANETS, &c. "continued"
.---.------.-----.-----.---.-------------------.----------.---------.-------.

:---:SIGN  :EL.  :GEOM.:SEX:  NAME AND MEANING : GENIUS   :  RULER  :PLANET :

:   :      :     : FIG.:   :                   :          :         :       :

:---+------+-----+-----+---+-------------------+----------+---------+-------:

:13 :Cauda :Fire :  *  : F.:  Cauda Draconis   :Zazel and :Zazel and:Saturn :

:   :Draco-:     :  *  :   :   The threshold   :Bartzabel :Bartzabel:Mars   :

:   :nis   :     :  *  :   :lower, or going out:          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:14 :Caput :Earth: * * : M.:  Caput Draconis   : Hismael  :Hismael  :Jupiter:

:   :Draco-:     :  *  :   :   The Head, the   :   and    :   and   :Venus  :

:   :nis   :     :  *  :   :threshold entering,: Kedemel  : Kedemel :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :the upper threshold:          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:15 : Leo  :Air  :  *  : M.:  Fortuna Minor    : Verchiel : Sorath  :Sun    :

:   :      :     :  *  :   : Lesser fortune,   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   :lesser aid, safe-  :          :         :       :

:   :      :     : * * :   : guard going out   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :     :   :                   :          :         :       :

:16 :Cancer:Water:  *  : F.:       Via         :  Muriel  :Chashmo- :Moon   :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :   Way, journey    :          :  dai    :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

:   :      :     :  *  :   :                   :          :         :       :

.---.------.-----.-----.---.-------------------.----------.---------.-------.

CHAPTER II
THE MODE OF DIVINING --- MOTHERS --- DAUGUTERS ---
NEPHEWS --- WITNESSES --- JUDGE --- RECONCILER ---
PART OF FORTUNE


THINK fixedly of the demand; with a pencil mark 16 lines of points or dashes. Find whether number of points in each line is odd or even. For odd *; for even **. Lines 1-4 give the first mother; lines 5-8 the second; and so on.


                           EXAMPLE



         4             3            2            1

        * *  10       * *  12       *   15       *   15

         *   11       * *   6      * *  16       *   15

        * *  10        *    9       *   15      * *  16

        * *  10        *    7      * *  14      * *  14
[The small Arabic numerals refer to the chance number of dashes.]
Use clean (virgin) paper; place appropriate Pentagram (either with or without a circumscribed circle) invoking. If a circle, draw this first. Sigil of Ruler to which nature of question most refers should be placed in the Pentagram thus: {142}

          Saturn  Agriculture, sorrow, death.

          Jupiter  Good fortune, feasting, church preferment.

          Mars  War, victory fighting.

          Sun  Power, magistracy.

          Venus  Love, music, pleasure.

          Mercury  Science, learning, knavery.

          Moon  Travelling, fishing, &c.

In diagram, p. 144, the Sigil of Hismael should be used.
In marking points fix attention on Sigil and on the question proposed; the hand should not be moved from the paper till complete. It is convenient to rule lines to guide the eye.
The daughters are derived by reading the mothers horizontally.

The four nephews, Figures IX-XII, are thus formed: IX = I + II read vertically, added and taken as odd or even. So also XIII = IX + X, and XV = XIII + XIV.


             .  VIII    VII    VI      V    IV      III    II      I

             :  * *     * *    *       *    * *     * *    *       *

Referred to  :  * *      *    * *      *     *      * *   * *      *

             :   *       *    * *     * *   * *      *     *      * *

  twelve     :  * *     * *    *      * *   * *      *    * *     * *

            -:   .---.---.     .---.---.     .---.---.     .---.---.

Astrological :      XII            XI            X            IX

             :      * *           * *           * *           * *

  Houses     :       *             *             *             *

             :      * *           * *            *             *

             .      * *            *             *            * *

                     .------.------.             .------.------.

                           XIV                         XIII

                           * *                         * *

                  LEFT     * *                         * *   RIGHT

                 WITNESS   * *                         * *  WITNESS

                            *                           *

                            .-------------.-------------.

                                        JUDGE

                                          XV

                                         * *

                                         * *

                                         * *

                                         * *
{143}
These last three are merely aids to general judgment. If the judge be good the figure is good, and "vice-versa."

The Reconciler = I + XV

To find the part of Fortune Earth (ready money or cash belonging to Querent), add points of the figures I - XII, divide by 12, and remainder shows figure. Here I + II + ... + XII = 74 points = 6 x 12 + 2 .'. Earth falls with

* * * (II) * * *




<
BR>
CHAPTER III
OF THE FIGURE OF THE TWELVE HOUSES OF HEAVEN


THE meaning of the twelve Houses is to be found, primarily, in any text- book of Astrology. Knowledge is to be enlarged and corrected by constant study and practice.

Place the figures thus:

     I  10th    IV  7th     VII  5th     X  3rd

    II  Asc.     V  11th   VIII  8th    XI  6th

   III  4th     VI  2nd     IX   12th  XII  9th



                      EXAMPLE



            .----------------------------------------.

            : \        *        /\       * *       / :

            :   \      *      /    \      *      /   :

            :     \   * *   /   *    \   * *   /     :

            : * *   \ * * /     *      \ * * /  * *  :

            :  *      \11      * *       \9/    * *  :

            :  *   12 / \      * *       / \8    *   :

            : * *   /     \            /     \  * *  :

            :     /         \        /         \     :

            :   /      *      \10  /     * *     \   :

            : /       * *      \ /        *        \ :

            : \        *    ASC/ \7      * *        /:

            :   \     * *     / 4  \     * *      /  :

            :     \         /        \          /    :

            :  *    \     /    * *     \      / * *  :

            : * *    2\ /      * *       \  /6   *   :

            : * *     /3\       *         5\    * *  :

            :  *    / * * \     *       /* * \   *   :

            :     /    *    \         /   *    \     :

            :   /      *      \     /     *      \   :

            : /        *        \ /      * *       \ :

            .----------------------------------------.

                                                 {144}

CHAPTER IV
TABLES OF WITNESSES AND JUDGE


.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:    * *     :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:

:    * *     :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :

:  POPULUS   :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Mod.  : Good  : Good  : Mod.  : Mod.  : Evil  : Good  : Mod.  :

:Money, &c. 2: Mod.  : Good  : Good  : Bad   : Mod.  : Evil  : Mod.  : Good  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Mod.  : Good  : Good  : Mod.  : Good  : Mod.  : Mod.  : Bad   :

:Property   4: Mod.  : Good  : Good  : Bad   : Good  : Bad   : Mod.  : Good  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Good  : Bad   : Good  : Good  : Bad   : Good  : Bad   :

:Sex ofChild6:  5#   : Evil  : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  : Dau.  :  5    : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Asc.  : Health: Soon  : Health: Peril-: Health: Health: Asc.  :

:            :       :       : health:       : ous   :       :       :       :

:Prison     8: Come  : Out   : Soon  :Out for: Long  : Out   : Die   : Die   :

:            : out   :       :  out  :nothing:       :       : there : there :

:Journey    9:Good by: Slow  : Medium:Good by: Evil  : Medium: Medium: Evil  :

:            : water :       :       : water :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Found : Part  : Not   : Found : Lost  : Found : Part  :

:            :       :       : found : found :       :       :       : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
# Arabic numbers mean that the judgment is determined by the figure
in that House of Heaven. {145}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:    * *     : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *:

:    * *     : *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *:

:  LAETITIA  : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good &: Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:            : long  :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Money, &c. 2:Increa-: Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  :

:            : se    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Rank, &c.  3: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  :

:            :dignity:       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Property   4: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   : Dau.  : Dau.  :  5    : Son   :  5    : Son   :  5    :

:Sickness   7: Health:  11   : Asc.  :Danger-: Health: Health: Health:  5    :

:            :       :       :       : ous   :       :       :       :       :

:Prison     8: Late  : Come  : Come  : Come  : Soon  : Run   : Escape: Come  :

:            :  out  :  out  :  out  :  out  :  out  :  away : & re- :  out  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :capture:       :

:Journey    9:Good in:Hurtful: Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Return:Good by:

:            : end   :       :       :       :       :       :       : water :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Found : Part  : Part  : Part  : Part  : Part  : Part  :

:            :       :       : found : found : found :yielded: found : found :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:     *      :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:     *      :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:

:    VIA     :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Money, &c. 2: Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Med.  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Property   4: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   : Dau.  :  5    :  5    :  5    :  5    : Son   :  5    :

:Sickness   7: Health:Danger-: Health: Death : Death : Death : Health: Health:

:            :       : ous   :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Prison     8:Out for: Evil  : Come  :Not out:Not out:Not out: Come  : Soon  :

:            :Nothing:       :  out  :       :       :       :  out  :  out  :

:Journey    9:Good by:Good by: Slack : Return: Return: Late  : Late  : Good  :

:            : water : water :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Not   : Not   : Part  : Found : Found : Part  : Little: Not   :

:            : found : found :yielded:       :       : found : found : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{146}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:     *      :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :

:     *      : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:

:Fortuna     : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:Major       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Possi-: Evil  : Good  : Good  : Good  : Med.  : Good  : Good  :

:            : bility:       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:            : good  :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Property   4: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  :

:Sex ofChild6:  5    : Son   : Son   :  5    : Son   : Dau.  :  5    :  5    :

:Sickness   7: Health: Health: Good  : ASC.  : Health: Peril-: Health: Health:

:            :       :       :       :       :       : ous   :       :       :

:Prison     8: Come  : Late  : Come  : Die   : Come  : With  : Come  : Soon  :

:            :  out  :       :  out  : there :  out  : harm  :  out  :  out  :

:Journey    9: Good  : Evil  : Diffi-: Med.  : Soon  : Late  : Good  : Very  :

:            :  with :       : cult  :       : return:       :       : good  :

:            :  speed:       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Not   : Found : Found : Part  : Not   : Found : Not   :

:            :       : found :       :       : found : found :       : found :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *:

:     *      : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:

:   ALBUS    : *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Evil  : Good  : Evil  :Suffic-: Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  :

:            :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :

:Money, &c. 2: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Property   4: Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Sex ofChild6:Dau.die:  5    : Dau.  :  5    : Dau.  :  5    : Dau.  : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Death : Health: Death : Health: Death : Health: Health: ASC.  :

:Prison     8: Peril-: Late  :Not out: Come  : Die   : Run   : Come  : Come  :

:            :  ous  :       :       :  out  : there : away  :  out  :  out  :

:Journey    9: Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Diffi-: Slow  : Med.  :V. good:

:            :       :       :       :       : cult  :       :       :  by   :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : Water :

:Thing Lost10: Not   : Not   : Not   : Part  : Part  : Found : Not   : Part  :

:            : found : found : found : found : found :       : found : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{147}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:    * *     :* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:

:    * *     :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:

:   RUBEUS   :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Very  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Very  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Very  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Property   4: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Very  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Very  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  :Immoral:

:            : good  :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   : Dau.  : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  :  5    :  5    :  5    :

:Sickness   7: Health: Health: Death : Health: Health: Long  : In    : Peril-:

:            :       :       :       :       :       : sick  : danger:  ous  :

:Prison     8: Come  : Diffi-: Evil  : Evil  : Come  : Soon  : Doubt-: Death :

:            :  out  :  cult :       :       :  out  :  out  :  ful  :       :

:Journey    9: Diffi-: Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Slow  : Evil  : Robbed:

:            :  cult :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Part  : Part  : Not   : Found : Not   : Found : Not   : Not   :

:            : found :yielded: found :       : found :       : found : found :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:    * *     :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :

:     *      :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :

:TRISTITIA   : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Evil  :Suffic-: Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:            :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Money, &c. 2: Med.  :Suffic-: Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Very  :

:            :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Evil  :Suffic-: Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Good  : Evil  :

:            :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Property   4: Good  :Suffic-: Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Very  :

:            :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Evil  :Suffic-: Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  :

:            :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Sex ofChild6:  5    : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  :  5    :  5    : Dau.  :  5    :

:Sickness   7: Death : Death : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Health: Health: Peril-:

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :  ous  :

:Prison     8: Death : Death : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Come  : Long  : Hard  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :  out  :       :       :

:Journey    9: Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Very  : Late  : Med.  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       : late  :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Not   : Found : Not   : Not   : Not   : Not   : Found : Not   :

:            : found :       : found : found : found : found :       : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{148}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:

:     *      : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :

:     *      :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:

:   PUELLA   : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:Money, &c. 2: Med.  : Good  : Good  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Evil  : Good  :V. good: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Good  : Evil  :

:Property   4: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Med.  : Good  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  :

:Sex ofChild6: Dau.  : Son   :  5    :  5    :  5    :  5    : Dau.  :  5    :

:Sickness   7: ASC.  : Health:Danger-: ASC.  : Health: Health: Long  : Health:

:            :       :       : ous   :       :       :       :       :       :

:Prison     8: Out by: Come  : Come  : Good  : Come  : Come  : Long  : Come  :

:            : ill   :  out  :  out  :  end  :  out  :  out  :       :  out  :

:            : means :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Journey    9: Peril-: Good  :Good by: Good  : Peril-: Slow  : Good  : Med.  :

:            :  ous  :       : Water :       :  ous  :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Part  : Found : Part  : Found : Not   : Not   : Found : Part  :

:            : found :       : found :       : found : found :       : found :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:    * *     :* *  * : *   * : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :

:     *      : *   * :* *  * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:

:    PUER    : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Some- : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:            :       :  what :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:            :       :  good :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Rank, &c.  3: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Property   4: Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   : Dau.  :  5    : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Health: Soon  : ASC.  : Death : Health: Peril-: Health: Evil  :

:            :       :  die  :       :       :       :  ous  :       :       :

:Prison     8: Well  : Soon  :Danger-: Die   : Come  : Peril-: Come  : Evil  :

:            :  out  :  out  : ous   :  there:  out  :  ous  :  out  :       :

:Journey    9: Return: Med.  :Spoiled: Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Part  : Not   : Not   : Found : Not   : Found : Not   :

:            :       : found : found : found :       : found :       : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{149}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * : *   * :

:     *      : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:     *      : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:

:CAPUT       :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:

:DRACONIS    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Evil  : Good  : V.good: Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Good  :

:Money, &c. 2: Evil  : Good  : V.good:Suffic-: Med.  : V.good: Evil  : V.good:

:            :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :       :

:Rank, &c.  3: Evil  : Good  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Good  : Evil  : Good  :

:Property   4: Evil  : Good  : V.good: Med.  :Suffic-: Good  : Evil  : Good  :

:            :       :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :       :

:Wife, &c.  5: Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  :

:Sex ofChild6: Dau.  :  5    :  5    : Dau.  : Son   : Son   : Dau.  : Son   :

:Sickness   7: ASC.  : Health: ASC.  : Health: Good  : Health: Health: Health:

:            :       :       :       :       :  end  :       :       :       :

:Prison     8: Long  : Peril-: Come  : Hard  :  6    : Soon  : Come  : Out   :

:            :       :  ous  :  out  :       :       :  out  :  out  :  late :

:Journey    9: Evil  : Med.  :Good by: Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : V.good:

:            :       :       :Water  :       :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Not   : Found : Found : Found : Part  : Found : Not   : Found :

:            : found :       :       :       : found :       : found :       :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:     *      : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :* *  * :

:    * *     : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :

:CAUDA       : *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * :

:DRACONIS    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Med.  : Evil  : Very  : Toler-: Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:            :       :       : evil  :  able :       :       :       :       :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Evil  : Very  : Good  : Med.  :Suffic-: Good  : Evil  :

:            :       :       : evil  :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Rank, &c.  3: Med.  : Evil  : Very  : Med.  : Evil  :Suffic-: Good  : Evil  :

:            :       :       : evil  :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Property   4: Good  : Evil  : Very  : Med.  : Evil  :Suffic-: Good  : Med.  :

:            :       :       : evil  :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Wife, &c.  5: Med.  : Evil  : Very  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  : Very  :

:            :       :       : evil  :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   :  5    :  5    :  5    :  5    :  5    :Son and:  5    :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       : live  :       :

:Sickness   7: Health: Peril-: Death : Death : Death : Peril-: Health: ASC.  :

:            :       :  ous  :       :       :       :  ous  :       :       :

:Prison     8: Good  : Out   : Death : Come  : Come  : Come  : Soon  :Danger-:

:            :  end  : with  :       :  out  :out pun:  out  :  out  : ous   :

:            :       : pain  :       :       : ished :       :       :       :

:Journey    9: Evil  : Evil  : Very  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Very  :

:            :       :       : evil  :       :       :       :       : evil  :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Not   : Not   : Found : Not   : Part  : Found : Not   :

:            :       : found : found :       : found :  found:       : found :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{150}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:     *      :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :

:ACQUISITIO  :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Evil  : V.good: Med.  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:Money, &c. 2: Med.  : Evil  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Med.  : Med.  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:Property   4: Med.  : Evil  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  :

:Sex ofChild6:   5   : Son   :  5    :  5    : Son   : Dau.  :  5    : Son   :

:Sickness   7: Health: Health: Health: Health: Health: Health: ASC.  : In    :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       : danger:

:Prison     8: Death : Come  : Come  : Come  : Long  : Come  : Late  : Slow  :

:            :       :  out  :  out  :  out  :       :  out  :  out  :       :

:Journey    9: Med.  : Good  : Good  : Med.  : Soon  : Med.  : Evil  : Slow  :

:            :       :       :       :       : return:       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Not   : Found : Not   : Found : Found : Found : Found :

:            :       : found :       : found :       :       :       :       :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:     *      : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:  AMISSIO   : *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  :

:Property   4: Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Evil  : Evil  :

:Sex ofChild6:  5    : Son   :  5    :  5    : Dau.  : Son   :  5    :  5    :

:Sickness   7:The end: Health: Peril-: Health: Health: Health: Death : Health:

:            : health:       :  ous  :       :       :       :       :       :

:Prison     8: Long  : Good  : Hard  : Soon  : Come  : Come  : Out in: Die   :

:            :       :  end  :       :  out  :  out  :  out  :the end:  there:

:Journey    9: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Not   :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :  begun:

:Thing Lost10: Not   : Found : Not   : Not   : Not   : Not   : Part  : Part  :

:            : found :       : found : found : found : found :  found:  found:

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{151}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:    * *     :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :* * * *: *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :

:     *      : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :

:CONJUNCTIO : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Hard  :

:Property   4: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Evil  : Med.  : V.good: Evil  : Good  : Good  : Med.  :

:Sex ofChild6: Son   :  5    :  5    : Dau.  :  5    : Son   : Dau.  : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Long &: Death : Death : ASC.  : ASC.  : Health: Peril-: Hard  :

:            : pining:       :       :       :       :       :  ous  :       :

:Prison     8: Long  : Out   : Peril-: Long  : Good  : Come  : Come  : Long  :

:            :  time :  with :  ous  :       :       :  out  :  out  :       :

:            :       :  fear :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:Journey    9: Slow  : Med.  :Good by: Good  : Med.  : Evil  : Slow  : Hard  :

:            :       :       :Water  :       :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Found : Not   : Found : Not   : Found : Not   : Found :

:            :       :       : found :       : found :       : found :       :

:============+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======:

:    L.W.    :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * :

:    * *     :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:     *      :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :

:  CARCER    :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Med.  :Suffic-: Evil  : Med.  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  :Suffic-: Evil  : Med.  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Rank, &c.  3: Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Property   4: Med.  : Evil  : Good  : Good  : Med.  :Suffic-: Med.  : Good  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Wife, &c.  5: Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Good  : Med.  :Suffic-: Evil  : Good  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       : 'nt   :       :       :

:Sex ofChild6: Dau.  :  5    : Son   : Dau.  :  5    :  5    :  5    : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Health: Health: Health: Health: Health: Health: Peril-:Danger-:

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :  ous  : ous   :

:Prison     8: Good  : Soon  : Late  : Come  : Come  : Come  : Evil  : Late  :

:            :  end  :  out  :  out  :  out  :  out  :  out  :       :  out  :

:Journey    9: Slow  : Good  : Slow  : Slow  : Slow  : Slow  : Diffi-: Evil  :

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :  cult :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Little: Part  : Part  : Part  : Not   : Not   : Be    :

:            :       :  found:  found:  found:  found: found : found :  found:

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
{152}
.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.

:    L.W.    :R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:R.W. J.:

:     *      :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:     *      :* *  * :* *  * : *  * *:* *  * : *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:

:    * *     :* *  * : *  * *: *  * *: *  * *:* *  * : *  * *:* *  * :* *  * :

:    * *     : *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * : *   * :* * * *:* * * *:

:FORTUNA     : *   * :* * * *:* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :* * * *: *   * :

:MINOR       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :       :

:------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------:

:Life, &c.  1: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Med.  :

:Money, &c. 2: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Evil  : Good  : Med.  :

:Rank, &c.  3: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  :

:Property   4: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Wife, &c.  5: Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Good  : Evil  : Med.  : Evil  : Med.  :

:Sex ofChild6:  5    :  5    :  5    : Son   : Dau.  : Son   : Dau.  : Dau.  :

:Sickness   7: Health: Death : Health: Health: ASC.  : Health: Health: Peril-:

:            :       :       :       :       :       :       :quickly:  ous  :

:Prison     8: Come  : Come  : Hard  :Long in: Come  : Sorrow: Come  : Die   :

:            :  out  :  out  : prison: prison:  out  :       :  out  :       :

:Journey    9: Good  : Med.  : Good  : Late  : Good  : Med.  : Med.  : Evil  :

:            :       :       :       :  good :       :       :       :       :

:Thing Lost10: Found : Found : Part  : Found : Not   : Not   : Not   : Found :

:            :       :       :  found:       : found : found : found :       :

.------------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.-------.
CHAPTER V
THE GENERAL MEANING OF THE SIXTEEN FIGURES IN
THE TWELVE HOUSES


HEREIN follows a set of general tables of the sixteen figures in the twelve Houses, for the better convenience of forming a general judgment of the scheme. Under the head of each figure separately is given its general effect in whatever House it may happen to fall.

Thus, by taking the House signifying the thing demanded, and also that signifying the end of the matter (fourth House), and noticing what figures fall therein, you may find by these tables their general effect in that position. {153}

.----------------------------------------.

:           ACQUISITIO                   :

:Generally very good for profit or gain  :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 : Happy success in all things        :

: 2 :       Very prosperous              :

: 3 :      Favour and riches             :

: 4 :   Good fortune and success         :

: 5 :         Good success               :

: 6 :  Good, esp. agreeing with 5th      :

: 7 :       Reasonably good              :

: 8 : Rather good, not very, the sick    :

:   :              die                   :

: 9 :          Good in all               :

:10 : Good in suits, very prosperous     :

:11 :          Good in all               :

:12 :    Evil, pain, and loss            :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:          FORTUNA MINOR                 :

:      Good in any matter where a        :

:    person wishes to proceed quickly    :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 : Speed in victory or love; but      :

:   :             choleric               :

: 2 :            Very good               :

: 3 :       Good, but wrathful           :

: 4 : Haste, rather evil, exc. for peace :

: 5 :          Good in all               :

: 6 :         Medium in all              :

: 7 :   Evil, exc. for war or love       :

: 8 :         Evil generally             :

: 9 :       Good, but chloeric           :

:10 :      Good, exc. for peace          :

:11 :       Good, esp. for love          :

:12 :    Good, exc. for alteration or    :

:   :         serving another            :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:              AMISSIO                   :

:Gd for loss of substance, and sometimes :

:    for love, but v. bad for gain       :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :    Ill in all but for prisoners    :

: 2 : V.evil for money, good for love    :

: 3 :     Ill end, exc. in quarrels      :

: 4 :           Ill in all               :

: 5 :     Evil, exc. for agriculture     :

: 6 :    Rather evil, exc. for love      :

: 7 : V.good for love, otherwise evil    :

: 8 :    Excellent in all questions      :

: 9 :           Evil in all              :

:10 :  Evil, exc. for women's favour     :

:11 :  Good for love, otherwise bad      :

:12 :           Evil in all              :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:              LETITIA                   :

:   Good for joy, present or to come     :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :         Good exc. in war           :

: 2 :              Sickly                :

: 3 :               Ill                  :

: 4 :           Meanly good              :

: 5 :         Excellently good           :

: 6 :          Evil generally            :

: 7 :            Indifferent             :

: 8 :          Evil generally            :

: 9 :            Very good               :

:10 : Good rather in war than in peace   :

:11 :           Good in all              :

:12 :          Evil generally            :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:           FORTUNA MAJOR                :

: Good for gain in things where a person :

:           has hopes to win             :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :      Good, save in secrecy         :

: 2 :    Good, save in sad things        :

: 3 :          Good in all               :

: 4 :   Good in all but melancholy       :

: 5 :        Very good in all            :

: 6 : Very good, exc. for debauchery     :

: 7 :          Good in all               :

: 8 :        Moderately good             :

: 9 :           Very good                :

:10 :Exceedingly good, to go to superiors:

:11 :           Very good                :

:12 :          Good in all               :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:               TRISTITIA                :

:      Evil in almost all things         :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :  Med., but good for treasure and   :

:   :            fortiying               :

: 2 :     Med., but good to fortify      :

: 3 :            Evil in all             :

: 4 :            Evil in all             :

: 5 :             Very evil              :

: 6 :     Evil, exc. for debauchery      :

: 7 :     Evil, but in secrecy good      :

: 8 :Gd. for inheritance and magic only  :

: 9 :       Evil, exc. for magic         :

:10 :    Evil, exc. for fortification    :

:11 :            Evil in all             :

:12 :   Evil, but good for magic and     :

:   :             treasure               :

.---.------------------------------------. {154}



.----------------------------------------.

:                PUELLA                  :

:   Good in all demands, especially      :

:      those relating to women           :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :        Good, exc. in war           :

: 2 :            Very good               :

: 3 :              Good                  :

: 4 :          But indifferent           :

: 5 :  V.good, but notice the aspects    :

: 6 : Good, but esp. so for debauchery   :

: 7 :         Good, exc. for war         :

: 8 :               Good                 :

: 9 : Good for music, otherwise medium   :

:10 :          Good for place            :

:11 :      Good, and love of ladies      :

:12 :           Good in all              :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:                ALBUS                   :

: Good for profit and for entering into  :

:        a place of undertaking          :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 : Good for marriage; mercurial; peace:

: 2 :            Good in all             :

: 3 :             Very good              :

: 4 :         Good, exc. in war          :

: 5 :               Good                 :

: 6 :            Good in all             :

: 7 :         Good, exc. in war          :

: 8 :               Good                 :

: 9 :     A messenger brings letters     :

:10 :          Excellent in all          :

:11 :             Very good              :

:12 :         Marvelously good           :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:                PUER                    :

:    Evil in most demands, except        :

:   those relating to war and love       :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :     Indifferent; best in war       :

: 2 :      Good, but with trouble        :

: 3 :           Good fortune             :

: 4 :     Evil, exc. in war and love     :

: 5 :            Medium good             :

: 6 :              Medium                :

: 7 :         Evil, save in war          :

: 8 :        Evil, exc. in love          :

: 9 :        Evil, exc. for war          :

:10 :   Evil rather; good for love and   :

:   :        war; else medium            :

:11 :        Medium; good favour         :

:12 :          Very good in all          :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:             CONJUNCTIO                 :

:  Good with good, and evil with evil    :

:        Recovery of things lost         :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :   Good with good, evil with evil   :

: 2 :          Commonly good             :

: 3 :           Good fortune             :

: 4 :  Good, save for health. "Cf." 8th    :

:   :         House's figure             :

: 5 :             Medium                 :

: 6 :     Good for immorality only       :

: 7 :           Rather good              :

: 8 :           Evil, death              :

: 9 :           Medium good              :

:10 :  For love good, for sickness evil  :

:11 :           Good in all              :

:12 :     Medium, bad for prisoners      :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:               RUBEUS                   :

:  Evil in all that is good, and good    :

:         in all that is evil            :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :        Destroy the figure          :

: 2 :           Evil in all              :

: 3 :     Evil, exc. to let blood        :

: 4 :   Evil, exc. in war and fire       :

: 5 :   Evil, exc. for sowing seed       :

: 6 :   Evil, exc. for blood-letting     :

: 7 :   Evil, exc. for war and fire      :

: 8 :             Evil                   :

: 9 :           Very evil                :

:10 :     Dissolute, love, fire          :

:11 :   Evil, exc. for blood-letting     :

:12 :           Evil in all              :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:               CARCER                   :

:  General evil, delay, binding, stay,   :

:            bar, restriction            :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :   Evil, exc. to fortify a place    :

: 2 :   Good in Saturnian questions,     :

:   :         otherwise evil             :

: 3 :             Evil                   :

: 4 :    Good, only for melancholy       :

: 5 :Receive a letter in three days, evil:

: 6 :           Very evil                :

: 7 :             Evil                   :

: 8 :           Very evil                :

: 9 :          Evil in all               :

:10 :    Evil, save for hid treasure     :

:11 :          Much anxiety              :

:12 :          Rather good               :

.---.------------------------------------. {155}



.----------------------------------------.

:          CAPUT DRACONIS                :

: Good with good, evil with evil; gives  :

:         a good issue for gain          :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :          Good in all               :

: 2 :             Good                   :

: 3 :           Very good                :

: 4 :        Good, save in war           :

: 5 :           Very good                :

: 6 :      Good for immorality only      :

: 7 :        Good, esp. for peace        :

: 8 :             Good                   :

: 9 :           Very good                :

:10 :          Good in all               :

:11 :   Good for the Church and eccle-   :

:   :         siastical gain             :

:12 :         Not very good              :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:                 VIA                    :

:Injurious to the goodness of other figs.:

:  generally, but gd. for journeys &     :

:              voyages                   :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :      Evil;, exc. for prison        :

: 2 :           Indifferent              :

: 3 :         Very good in all           :

: 4 :      Good in all, save love        :

: 5 :          Voyages good              :

: 6 :              Evil                  :

: 7 :  Rather good, esp. for voyages     :

: 8 :              Evil                  :

: 9 :  Indifferent; good for journeys    :

:10 :              Good                  :

:11 :           Very good                :

:12 :           Excellent                :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:           CAUDA DRACONIS               :

:Good with evil, and evil with good; good:

:  for loss, and for passing out of an   :

:                affair                  :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :      Destroy the figure            :

: 2 :          Very evil                 :

: 3 :         Evil in all                :

: 4 :  Good, esp. for conclusion of      :

:   :         the matter                 :

: 5 :          Very evil                 :

: 6 :         Rather good                :

: 7 :       Evil, war, and fire          :

: 8 :     No good, exc. for magic        :

: 9 :  Good for science only; bad for    :

:   :       journeys; robbery            :

:10 :    Evil, save in works of fire     :

:11 :       Evil, save for favours       :

:12 :          Rather good               :

.---.------------------------------------.



.----------------------------------------.

:                POPULUS                 :

:  Sometimes good, sometimes bad; good   :

:        with good, evil with evil       :

:---.------------------------------------:

: 1 :        Good for marriage           :

: 2 :           Medium good              :

: 3 :      Rather good than bad          :

: 4 :      Good in all but love          :

: 5 :          Good in most              :

: 6 :             Good                   :

: 7 :     In war good, else medium       :

: 8 :             Evil                   :

: 9 :        Look for letters            :

:10 :             Good                   :

:11 :           Good in all              :

:12 :            Very evil               :

.---.------------------------------------.
{156}
CHAPTER VI
OF THE ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES OF THE FIGURES IN THE
HOUSES; OF THE ASPECTS OF THE HOUSES; AND OF
THE FRIENDSHIP AND ENMITY OF THE RULERS IN
ASPECTS, ETC.


BY Essential Dignity is meant the strength of a figure when found in a particular House. A figure is therefore strongest in what is called its House; very strong in its Exaltation; strong in its Triplicity; very weak in its Fall; weakest of all in its Detriment. A figure is in its Fall when in a House opposite to that of its Exaltation; in its Detriment when opposite to its own House. The following list shows the Essential Dignities; that is to say, they follow the Dignities of their Ruling Planets, considering the twelve Houses of the scheme as answering to the twelve signs, thus: ASC. to Aries, 2 to Taurus, 3 to Gemini, &c., ... 12 to Pisces. Therefore Mars figures will be strong in ASC. and weak in 7th and so on. "See" chapter i. for attribution of figures to planets.


      * *  is strong in Dignities of Jupiter and Venus

       *

       *

       *



       *   is strong in Dignities of Saturn and Mars

       *

       *

      * *
TABLE OF ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES


{WEH NOTE: These tables of dignities are corrupt in places. They have not been corrected here, but copied as they stand in the 1st edition EQUINOX}
.------.-------------.------------.---------------.------------.------------.

: ---  :    HOUSE    : EXALTATION :  TRIPLICITY   :    FALL    :  DETRIMENT :

:------+-------------+------------+---------------+------------+------------:

: ASC. : 1121, 2122, : 2211, 1122 :2211,1122,2121,: 1221, 2221 : 1212, 1211 :

:      :    1112     :            :  1222, 2111   :            :            :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  2   : 1212, 1211  : 2222, 1111 :2222,1111,1212,:     ---    : 1121, 2122,:

:      :    2111     :            :  1211, 2111   :            :    1112    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  3   : 2112, 2212  :    2111    :1221,222 12212,:    1112    : 2121, 1222,:

:      :             :            :  2112, 112    :            :    2111    :

.------.-------------.------------.---------------.------------.------------.
{157}
TABLE OF ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES---"continued"

.------.-------------.------------.---------------.------------.------------.

: ---  :    HOUSE    : EXALTATION :  TRIPLICITY   :    FALL    :  DETRIMENT :

:------+-------------+------------+---------------+------------+------------:

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  4   : 2222, 1111  : 2121, 1222 :1121,2122,1112 : 1121, 2122 : 1221, 2221,:

:      :             :            :               :            :    1112    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  5   : 2211, 1122  :    ---     :2211,1122,2121,:     ---    : 1221, 2221,:

:      :             :            :  1222, 2111   :            :    1112    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  6   : 2112, 2212  : 2112, 2212 :2222,1111,1212,: 1212, 1211 : 2121, 1222,:

:      :             :            :  1211, 2111   :            :    2111    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  7   : 1211, 1212, : 1221, 2221 :1221,2221,2212,: 2211, 1122 : 1121, 2122,:

:      :    2111     :            :  2112, 1112   :            :    1112    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  8   : 2122, 1121, :    ---     :  1121, 2122,  : 2222, 1111 : 1212, 1211,:

:      :    1112     :            :     1112      :            :    2111    :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

:  9   : 2121, 1222, :    1112    :2211,1122,2121,:    2111    : 2212, 2112 :

:      :    2111     :            :  1222, 2111   :            :            :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

: 10   : 1221, 2221, : 1121, 2122 :2222,1111,1212,: 1222, 2121 : 2222, 1111 :

:      :    1112     :            :  1211, 2111   :            :            :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

: 11   : 1221, 2221, :    ---     :1221,2221,2212,:     ---    : 2211, 1122 :

:      :    1112     :            :  2112, 1112   :            :            :

:      :             :            :               :            :            :

: 12   : 1222, 2121, : 1212, 1211 :  1121, 2122,  : 2212, 2112 : 2212, 2112 :

:      :    2111     :            :     1112      :            :            :

.------.-------------.------------.---------------.------------.------------.


THE ASPECTS OF THE HOUSES

The ASC. is aspected by 11, 10, 9 (as Sextile Quartile and Trine ) Dexter and by 3, 4, 5 ... Sinister, and has 7 in opposition.

The Dexter aspect is that which is "contrary" to the natural order of the Houses; it is stronger than the Sinister. So for other Houses. Figures have Friends and Enemies: --- Saturn : Jupiter Sun Mercury Moon Friends; Mars Venus Enemies. Jupiter : Saturn Sun Venus Mercury Moon; and Mars. Mars : Venus; and Moon Saturn Sun Mercury. Sun : Jupiter Sun Venus Mercury Moon; and Saturn. Venus : Jupiter Sun Mars Mercury Moon; and Saturn. Mercury : Saturn Jupiter Sun Venus Moon; and Mars. Moon : Jupiter Sun Venus Mercury; and Saturn and Mars. {158}

Also figures of Fire are sympathetic with those of Fire, friendly with Air and Earth; hostile to Water.

So Water symp. Water, friendly Air and Earth, and host. Fire: Air symp. Air, friendly Fire and Water, and host. Earth. Earth symp. Earth, friendly Water and Fire, and host. Air. Again, sign figures are friends to those Sextile or Trine, and hostile to those Quartile or in Opposition.

CHAPTER VII
OF THE GENERAL METHOD OF JUDGING A FIGURE


                        * *     *


                         *      *


                        * *     *


REMEMBER always that if * * or * * 
fall in the Ascendant, the figure is not fit for judgment. Destroy it instantly, and erect a new figure not less than two hours afterwards.
Your figure being thoroughly arranged as on p. 144, note first to what House the demand belongs. Then look for Witnesses and Judge in their special table, and see what is said under the head of the demand. Put this down. Note next what figure falls in the House required (if it spring into other Houses, these too should be considered); "e.g.", in a question of money stolen, if the figure in 2nd be also in 6th it might show the thief to be a servant in the house. Look next in the Table of Figures in the Houses, and see what the figure signifies in the especial House under consideration. Put this down also. Then by the Table of Aspects (p. 158) note down the figures Sextile Quartile Trine and Opposition, putting good on one side, evil on the other; noting also the strength or weakness, friendliness or hostility to the figure in the House required, of these figures. Then add the meaning of the figure in the 4th, to signify the end of the matter. It may also assist you to form a Reconciler from the figure in the House required and {159} the Judge, noting what figure results and whether it harmonises with one or both by nature (pp. 158, 159). Now consider all you have written, and according to the balance of Good and Evil, form your final judgment. Consider also always in money questions where the part of Fortune falls. Take, "e.g.", the figure on p. 144, and form a judgment for loss of money in business therefrom.

   Tables of Witnesses and Judge say: Moderate.



              *

             * *

             * *

   In 2nd is  * .  Evil, showing obstacle, delay.



                                      *

                                     * *

                                      *

   Part of Fortune Earth is in ASC. with * *, showing loss through Querent's own blunders.



    *

   * *

   * *

    *  Springs into no other House; .'. this does not affect the question.



                                  * *  * *   *       * *

                                   *   * *   *        *

                                   *    *   * *      * *

   The figures Sextile  and Trine  of 2nd are * *,  * , * *, and  * , all good figures and

 friendly in nature = Well-intentioned help of friends.



                            *   * *  * *                             *

                            *    *   * *                            * *

The figures Quartile and   * *   *    *                             * *

Opposition  are            * *, * *, * *, which are not hostile to   * ; therefore shows

 opposition not great.



                            * *

                            * *

                             *

   The figure in the 4th is  * , which shows a good end, but with anxiety.



                                 *

                                 *

                                * *

   Forming a Reconciler, we get * * again, a sympathetic figure, but denoting delay = Delay,

 but helping Querent's wishes.
Adding all together ---
1. Medium;
2. Evil and obstacles, delay;
3. Loss through Querent's self;
4. Strength for evil, medium only;
5. Well-intentioned aid of friends;
6. Not much opposition from enemies;
7. Ending good, but with anxiety;
8. Delay, but helping Querent's wishes --- we formulate this judgment: {160}
That the Querent's loss in business has been principally owing to his own mismanagement; that he will have a long and hard struggle, but will meet with help from friends; that his obstacles will gradually give way; and that after much anxiety he will eventually recoup himself for his previous losses.


{Illustration: This is another by AOS, formed this time in an abstract of female primary and secondary sexual attributes in contrast to the male elements in the first. There is a large face suggested in the drawing, to the right and center.}

{161}

BAPHOMET XI°

Liber CI
{Book 101}
O. T. O.
Ordo Templi Orientis
An Open Letter to
Those Who May Wish
to Join the Order

and Privileges

These Regulations Come into Force in Any District Where the Membership of the Order Exceeds One Thousand Souls

These regulations first appeared in The Equinox III(1) (Detroit: Universal, 1919) and constitute our best and most comprehensive guidelines for Thelemic social intercourse. Certain provisions will need to be modified to take advantage of the U.S.A.'s comparatively enlightened tax-exemption statutes as applied to religious organizations--a few are of dubious legality at this writing. Most of the principles outlined herein have long been observed in the U.S. O.T.O.--H.B.

Issued by Order: BAPHOMET XI° O.T.O., HIBERNIAE IONAE ET OMNIUM BRITANNIARUM, REX SUMMUS SANCTISSIMUS

AN EPISTLE OF BAPHOMET to Sir GEORGE MACNIE COWIE, Very Illustrious and Very Illuminated, Pontiff and Epopt of the Areopagus of the VIII° O.T.O. Grand Treasurer General, Keeper of the Golden Book, President of the Committee of Publications of the O.T.O.

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

IT HAS BEEN REPRESENTED TO Us that some persons who are worthy to join the O.T.O. consider the fees and subscriptions rather high. This is due to your failure to explain properly the great advantages offered by the Order. We desire you therefore presently to note, and to cause to be circulated throughout the Order, and among those of the profane who may seem worthy to join it, these matters following concerning the duties and the privileges of members of the earlier degrees of the O.T.O. as regards material affairs. And for convenience we shall classify these as pertaining to the Twelve Houses of the Heaven, but also by numbered clauses for the sake of such as understand not the so-called Science of the Stars. First, therefore, concerning the duties of the Brethren. Yet with our Order every duty is also a privilege, so that it is impossible wholly to separate them.

OF THE DUTIES OF THE BRETHREN

FIRST HOUSE

1. There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt. Yet it is well for Brethren to study daily in the Volume of the Sacred Law, Liber Legis, for therein is much counsel concerning this, how best they may carry out this will.

SECOND HOUSE

2. The private purse of every Brother should always be at the disposal of any Brother who may be in need. But in such a case it is a great mischief if the one ask, and the other consent; for if the former be really in need, his pride is wounded by his asking; and if not, the door is opened to beggars and imposters, and all manner of arrant knaves and rogues such as are no true Brethren. But the Brother who is possessed of this world's goods should make it his business to watch the necessity of all those Brethren with whom he may be personally acquainted, anticipating their wants in so wise and kindly and delicate a manner that it shall appear as if it were the payment of a debt. And what help is given shall be given with discretion, so that the relief may be permanent rather than temporary.

3. All Brethren shall be exceedingly punctual in the payment of Lodge Dues. This is to take precedence of all other calls upon the purse.

THIRD HOUSE

4. The Brethren shall be diligent in preaching the Law of Thelema. In all writings they shall be careful to use the prescribed greetings; likewise in speech, even with strangers.

5. They shall respond heartily to every summons of the Lodge or Chapter to which they may belong, not lightly making excuse.

6. Brethren should use every opportunity of assisting each other in their tastes, businesses, or professions, whether by direct dealing with Brethren in preference to others, or by speaking well of them, or as may suggest itself. It seems desirable, when possible, that where two or more Brethren of the same Lodge are engaged in the same work, they should seek to amalgamate the same by entering into partnership. Thus in time great and powerful corporations may arise from small individual enterprises.

7. They shall be diligent in circulating all tracts, manifestos, and all other communications which the Order may from time to time give out for the instruction or emancipation of the profane.

8. They may offer suitable books and pictures to the Libraries of the Profess-Houses of the Order.

FOURTH HOUSE

9. Every Brother who may possess mines, land, or houses more than he can himself constantly occupy, should donate part of such mines or land, or one or more of such houses to the Order.

10. Property thus given will be administered if he desire it in his own interest, thus effecting a saving, since large estates are more economically handled than small. But the Order will use such property as may happen to lie idle for the moment in such ways as it may seem good, lending an unlet house (for example) to some Brother who is in need, or allowing an unused hall to be occupied by a Lodge.

11. (Yet in view of the great objects of the Order, endowment is welcome.)

12. Every Brother shall show himself solicitous of the comfort and happiness of any Brother who may be old, attending not only to all material wants, but to his amusement, so that his declining years may be made joyful.

FIFTH HOUSE

13. Every Brother shall seek constantly to give pleasure to all Brethren with whom he is acquainted, whether by entertainment or conversation, or in any other manner that may suggest itself. It will frequently and naturally arise that love itself springs up between members of the Order, for that they have so many and sacred interests in common. Such love is peculiarly holy, and is to be encouraged.

14. All children of Brethren are to be considered as children of the whole Order, and to be protected and aided in every way by its members severally, as by its organization collectively. No distinction is to be made with regard to the conditions surrounding the birth of any child.

15. There is an especially sacred duty, which every Brother should fulfil, with regard to all children, those born without the Order included. This duty is to instruct them in the Law of Thelema, to teach them independence and freedom of thought and character, and to warn them that servility and cowardice are the most deadly diseases of the human soul.

SIXTH HOUSE

16. Personal or domestic attendants should be chosen from among the members of the Order when possible, and great tact and courtesy are to be employed in dealing with them.

17. They, on their part, will render willing and intelligent service.

18. While in Lodge, and on special occasions, they are to be treated as Brothers, with perfect equality; such behaviour is undesirable during the hours of service, and familiarity, subversive as it is of all discipline and order, is to be avoided by adopting a complete and marked change of manner and address.

19. This applies to all persons in subordinate positions, but not to the Brethren Servient in the Profess-Houses of the Order, who, giving service without recompense, are to be honoured as hosts.

20. In case of the sickness of any Brother, it is the duty of all Brethren who know him personally to attend him, to see that he want for nothing, and to report if necessary his needs to the Lodge, or to Grand Lodge itself.

21. Those Brethren who happen to be doctors or nurses will naturally give their skill and care with even more than their customary joy in service.

22. All Brethren are bound by their fealty to offer their service in their particular trade, business, or profession, to the Grand Lodge. For example, a stationer will supply Grand Lodge with paper, vellum, and the like; a bookseller offer any books to the Library of Grand Lodge which the Librarian may desire to possess; a lawyer will execute any legal business for Grand Lodge, and a railway or steamship owner or director see to it that the Great Officers travel in comfort wherever they may wish to go.

23. Visitors from other Lodges are to be accorded the treatment of ambassadors; this will apply most especially to Sovereign Grand Inspector Generals of the Order on their tours of inspection. All hospitality and courtesy shown to such is shown to Ourselves, not to them only.

SEVENTH HOUSE

24. It is desirable that the marriage partner of any Brother should also be a member of the Order. Neglect to insist upon this leads frequently to serious trouble for both parties, especially the uninitiate.

25. Lawsuits between members of the Order are absolutely forbidden, on pain of immediate expulsion and loss of all privileges, even of those accumulated by past good conduct referred to in the second part of this instruction.

26. All disputes between Brethren should be referred firstly to the Master or Masters of their Lodge or Lodges in conference; if a composition be not arrived at in this manner, the dispute is to be referred to the Grand Tribunal, which will arbitrate thereon, and its decision is to be accepted as final.

27. Refusal to apply for or accept such decision shall entail expulsion from the Order, and the other party is then at liberty to seek his redress in the Courts of Profane Justice.

28. Members of the Order are to regard those without its pale as possessing no rights of any kind, since they have not accepted the Law, and are therefore, as it were, troglodytes, survivals of a past civilisation, and to be treated accordingly. Kindness should be shown towards them, as towards any other animal, and every effort should be made to bring them into Freedom.

29. Any injury done by any person without the Order to any person within it may be brought before the Grand Tribunal, which will, if it deem right and fit, use all its power to redress or to avenge it.

30. In the case of any Brother being accused of an offence against the criminal law of the country in which he resides, so that any other Brother cognisant of the fact feels bound in self-defence to bring accusation, he shall report the matter to the Grand Tribunal as well as to the Civil Authority, claiming exemption on this ground.

31. The accused Brother will, however, be defended by the Order to the utmost of its power on his affirming his innocence upon the Volume of the Sacred Law in the Ordeal appointed ad hoc by the Grand Tribunal itself.

32. Public enemies of the country of any Brother shall be treated as such while in the field, and slain or captured as the officer of the Brother may command. But within the precincts of the Lodge all such divisions are to be forgotten absolutely; and as children of One Father the enemies of the hour before and the hour after are to dwell in peace, amity, and fraternity.

EIGHTH HOUSE

33. Every Brother is expected to bear witness in his last will and testament to the great benefit that he hath received from the Order by bestowing upon it part or the whole of his goods, as he may deem fit.

34. The death of a Brother is not to be an occasion of melancholy, but of rejoicing; the Brethren of his Lodge shall gather together and make a banquet with music and dancing and all manner of gladness. It is of the greatest importance that this shall be done, for thereby the inherited fear of death which is deep-seated as instinct in us will gradually be rooted out. It is a legacy from the dead aeon of Osiris, and it is our duty to kill it in ourselves that our children and our children's children may be born free from the curse.

NINTH HOUSE

35. Every Brother is expected to spend a great part of his spare time in the study of the principles of the Law and of the Order, and in searching out the key to its great and manifold mysteries.

36. He should also do all in his power to spread the Law, especially taking long journeys, when possible, to remote places, there to sow the seed of the Law.

TENTH HOUSE

37. All pregnant women are especially sacred to members of the Order, and no effort should be spared to bring them to acceptance of the Law of Freedom, so that the unborn may benefit by that impression. They should be induced to become members of the Order, so that the child may be born under its aegis.

38. If the mother that is to be have asserted her will to be so in contempt and defiance of the Tabus of the slave-gods, she is to be regarded as especially suitable to our Order, and the Master of the Lodge in her district shall offer to become, as it were, godfather to the child, who shall be trained specially, if the mother so wishes, as a servant of the Order, in one of its Profess-Houses.

39. Special Profess-Houses for the care of women of the Order, or those whose husbands or lovers are members of the Order, will be instituted, so that the frontal duty of womankind may be carried out in all comfort and honour.

40. Every Brother is expected to use all his influence with persons in a superior station of life (so called) to induce them to joint the Order. Royal personages, ministers of State, high officials in the Diplomatic, Naval, Military, and Civil Services are particularly to be sought after, for it is intended ultimately that the temporal power of the State be brought into the Law, and led into freedom and prosperity by the application of its principles.

41. Colleges of the Order will presently be established where the children of its members may be trained in all trades, businesses, and professions, and there they may study the liberal arts and humane letters, as well as our holy and arcane science. Brethren are expected to do all in their power to make possible the establishment of such Universities.

ELEVENTH HOUSE

42. Every Brother is expected to do all in his power to induce his personal friends to accept the Law and join the Order. He should therefore endeavor to make new friends outside the Order, for the purpose of widening its scpe.

TWELFTH HOUSE

43. The Brethren are bound to secrecy only with regard to the nature of the rituals of our Order, and to our words, signs, etc. The general principles of the Order may be fully explained, so far as they are understood below the VIø; as it is written, ``The ordeals I write not: the rituals shall be half known and half concealed: the Law is for all.'' It is to be observed that punctual performance of these duties, so that the report thereof is noised abroad and the fame of it cometh even unto the Throne of the Supreme and Holy King himself, will weigh heavily in the scale when it comes to be a question of the high advancement of a Brother in the Order.

OF THE PRIVILEGES OF THE BRETHREN

FIRST HOUSE

44. The first and greatest of all privileges of a Brother is to be a Brother; to have accepted the Law, to have become free and independent, to have destroyed all fear, whether of custom, or of faith, or of other men, or of death itself. In other papers the joy and glory of those who have accepted The Book of the Law as the sole rule of life is largely, though never fully, explained; and we will not here recapitulate the same.

SECOND HOUSE

45. All Brethren who may fall into indigence have a right to the direct assistance of the Order up to the full amount of fees and subscriptions paid by them up to the time of application. This will be regarded as a loan, but no interest will be charged upon it. That this privilege may not be abused, the Grand Tribunal will decide whether or no such application is made in good faith.

THIRD HOUSE

46. Members of the Order will be permitted to use the Library in any of our Profess-Houses.

47. Circulating Libraries will presently be established.

48. Brethren who may be travelling have a right to the hospitality of the Master of the Lodge of the district for a period of three days.

FOURTH HOUSE

49. Brethren of all grades may be invited to sojourn in the Profess-Houses of the Order by Grand Lodge; and such invitation may confidently be expected as the reward of merit. There they will be able to make the personal acquaintance of members of the higher Grades, learn of the deeper workings of the Order, obtain the benefit of personal instruction, and in all ways fit themselves for advancement.

50. Brethren of advanced years and known merit who desire to follow the religious life may be asked to reside permanently in such houses.

51. In the higher degrees Brethren have the right to reside in our Profess-Houses for a portion of every year, as shown:

VI°. Two weeks.	VII°. Two months.
G.T. One month.	S.G.C. Three months.
P.R.S. Six weeks.	VIII°. Six months.
52. Members of the IX°, who share among themselves the whole property of the Order according to the rules of that degree, may, of course, reside there permanently. Indeed, the house of every Brother of this grade is, ipso facto, a Profess-House of the Order.

FIFTH HOUSE

53. All Brethren may expect the warmest co-operation in their pleasures and amusements from other members of the Order. The perfect freedom and security afforded by the Law allows the characters of all Brethren to expand to the very limits of their nature, and the great joy and gladness with which they are constantly overflowing make them the best of companions. ``They shall rejoice, our chosen; who sorroweth is not of us. Beauty and strength, leaping laughter and delicious languor, force and fire, are of us.''

54. Children of all Brethren are entitled to the care of the Order, and arrangements will be made to educate them in certain of the Profess-Houses of the Order.

55. Children of Brethren who are left orphans will be officially adoÿted by the Master of his Lodge, or if the latter decline, by the Supreme Holy King himself, and treated in all ways as if they were his own.

56. Brethren who have a right to some especial interest in any child whose mother is not a member of the Order may recommend it especially to the care of their lodges or of Grand Lodge.

SIXTH HOUSE

57. In sickness all Brethren have the right to medical or surgical care and attendance from any Brethren of the Lodge who may be physicians, surgeons, or nurses.

58. In special necessity the Supreme Holy King will send his own attendants.

59. Where circumstances warrant it, in cases of lives of great value to the Order and the like, he may even permit the administration of that secret Medicine which is known to members of the IX°.

60. Members of the Order may expect Brethren to busy themselves in finding remunerative occupation for them, where they lack it, or, if possible, to employ them personally.

SEVENTH HOUSE

61. Members of the Order may expect to find suitable marriage partners in the extremely select body to which they belong. Community of interest and hope being already established, it is natural to suppose that where mutual attraction also exists, a marriage will result in perfect happiness. (There are special considerations in this matter which apply to the VII° and cannot be discussed in this place.)

62. As explained above, Brethren are entirely free of most legal burdens, since lawsuits are not permitted within the Order, and since they may call upon the legal advisers of the Order to defend them against their enemies in case of need.

EIGHTH HOUSE

63. All Brethren are entitled after death to the proper disposal of their remains according to the rites of the Order and their grade in it.

64. If the Brother so desire, the entire amount of the fees and subscriptions which he has paid during his life will be handed over by the Order to his heirs and legatees. The Order thus affords an absolute system of insurance in addition to its other benefits.

NINTH HOUSE

65. The Order teaches the only perfect and satisfactory system of philosoÿhy, religion, and science, leading its members step by step to knowledge and power hardly even dreamed of by the profane.

66. Brethren of the Order who take long journeys overseas are received in places where they sojourn at the Profess-Houses of the Order for the period of one month.

TENTH HOUSE

67. Women of the Order who are about to become mothers receive all care, attention, and honour from all Brethren.

68. Special Profess-Houses will be established for their convenience, should they wish to take advantage of them.

69. The Order offers great social advantages to its members, bringing them as it does into constant association with men and women of high rank.

70. The Order offers extraordinary opportunities to its members in their trades, businesses, or professions, aiding them by co-oÿeration, and securing them clients or customers.

ELEVENTH HOUSE

71. The Order offers friendship to its members, bringing together men and women of similar character, taste, and aspiration.

TWELFTH HOUSE

72. The secrecy of the Order provides it members with an inviolable shroud of concealment.

73. The crime of slander, which causes so great a proportion of human misery, is rendered extremely dangerous, if not impossible, within the Order by a clause in the Obligation of the Third Degree.

74. The Order exercises its whole power to relieve its members of any constraint to which they may be subjected, attacking with vigour any person or persons who may endeavour to subject them to compulsion, and in all other ways aiding in the complete emancipation of the Brethren from aught that may seek to restrain them from doing That Which They Will.

It is to be observed that these privileges being so vast, it is incumbent upon the honour of every Brother not to abuse them, and the sponsors of any Brother who does so, as well as he himself, will be held strictly to account by the Grand Tribunal. The utmost frankness and good faith between Brethren is essential to the easy and harmonious working of our system, and the Executive Power will see to it that these are encouraged by all means possible, and that breach of them is swiftly and silently suppressed.

Love is the law, love under will.

Our fatherly benediction, and the Blessing of the All-Father in the Outer and the Inner be upon you.

BAPHOMET X° O.T.O., IRELAND, IONA, AND ALL THE BRITAINS

BAPHOMET XI°

Liber CVI
{Book 106}
Concerning Death

This Epistle first appeared in The International, and its appearance here is dedicated to the late Frater Superior Hymenaeus Alpha 777 X° O.T.O.--H.B.

AN EPISTLE OF BAPHOMET to the Illustrious Dame Anna Wright, Companion of the Holy Graal, shining like the moon, concerning Death, that she and her sisters may bring comfort to all them that are nigh death, and unto such as love them.

Beloved Daughter and Sister,

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

Let it be thy will and the will of all them that tend upon the sick, to comfort and to fortify them with these words following.

I

IT IS WRITTEN in The Book of the Law: Every man and every woman is a Star. It is Our Lady of the Stars that speaketh to thee, O thou that art a star, a member of the Body of Nuith! Listen, for thine ears become dulled to the mean noises of the earth; the infinite silence of the Stars woos thee with subtile musick. Behold her bending down above thee, a flame of blue, all-touching, all-penetrant, her lovely hands upon the black earth, and her lithe body arched for love, and her soft feet not hurting the little flowers, and think that all thy grossness shall presently fall from thee as thou leapest to her embrace, caught up into her love as a dewdrop into the kisses of the sunrise. Is not the ecstasy of Nuit the consciousness of the continuity of existence, the omnipresence of her body? All that hath hurt thee was that thou knewest it not, and as that fadeth from thee thou shalt know as never yet how all is one. Again She saith: I give unimaginable joys upon earth, certainty, not faith, while in life, upon death. This thou hast known. Time that eateth his children hath not power on them that would not be children of Time. To them that think themselves immortal, that dwell alway in eternity, conscious of Nuit, throned upon the chariot of the sun, there is no death that men call death. In all the universe darkness is only to be found in the shadow of a gross and opaque planet, as it were for a moment; the universe itself is a flood of light eternal. So also death is but through accident; thou hast hidden thyself in the shadow of thy gross body, and taking it for reality, thou hast trembled. But the orb revolveth anon; the shadow passeth away from thee. There is the dissolution, and the eternal ecstasy in the kisses of Nu! For inasmuch as thou hast made the Law of Freedom thine, as thou hast lived in Light and Liberty and Love, thou hast become a Free-man of the City of the Stars.

II

LISTEN AGAIN to thine own voice within thee. Is not Hadit the flame that burns in every heart of man, and in the core of every star? Is not He Life, and the giver of Life? And is not therefore the knowledge of Him the knowledge of Death? For it hath been shown unto thee in many other places how Death and Love be twins. Now art thou the hunter, and Death rideth beside thee with his horse and spear as thou chasest thy Will through the forests of Eternity, whose trees are the hair of Nuit thy mistress! Thrill with the joy of life and death! Know, hunter mighty and swift, the quarry turns to bay! Thou hast but to make one sharp thrust, and thou hast won. The Virgin of Eternity lies supine at thy mercy, and thou art Pan! Thy death shall be the seal of the promise of our agelong love. Hast thou not striven to the inmost in thee? Death is the crown of all. Harden! Hold up thyself! Lift thine head! breathe not so deep--die!

III

OR ART THOU STILL ENTANGLED with the thorny plaits of wild briar rose that thou hast woven in thy magick dance on earth? Art not thine eyes strong enough to bear the starlight? Must thou linger yet awhile in the valley? Must thou dally with the shadows in the dusk? Then if it be Thy Will, thou hast no right but to do Thy Will! Love still these phantoms of the earth; thou hast made thyself a King; if it please thee to play with toys of matter, were they not made to serve thy pleasure? Then follow in thy mind the wondrous word of the Steele of Revealing itself. Return if thou wilt from the abode of the Stars; dwell with mortality, and feast thereon. For thou art this day Lord of Heaven and of Earth.

``The dead man Ankh-f-na-Khonsu

Saith with his voice of truth and calm:

O thou that hast a single arm!

O thou that glitterest in the moon!

I weave thee in the spinning charm

I lure thee with the billowy tune.

The dead man Ankh-f-na-Khonsu

Hath parted from the darkling crowds

Hath joined the dwellers of the light

Opening Duant, the star-abodes,

Their keys receiving.

The dead man Ankh-f-na-Khonsu

Hath made his passage into night

His pleasure on the earth to do

Among the living.''

Love is the law, love under will.

The Benediction of the All-Begetter, All-Devourer be upon thee.

Baphomet X° O.T.O.

Given under Our hand and seal this day of An XII the Sun our Father being in Leo, and the Moon in Pisces, from the throne of Ireland, Iona and all the Britains that is in the Sanctuary of the Gnosis.

{alpha}
APOLOGIA

I have begotten thee, o my Son, and that strangely, as thou knowest, upon the Scarlet Woman called Hilarion, as it was mysteriously foretold unto me in The Book of the Law. Now therefore that thou art come to the Age of Understanding, do thou give ear unto my Wisdom, for that therein lieth a simple and direct Way for every Man that he may attain to the End.

Firstly, then, I would have thee to know that Spiritual Experience and Perfection have no necessary connection with Advancement in our Holy Order. But for each Man is a Path: there is a Constant, and there is a Variable. Seek ever therefore in thy Work of the Promulgation of the Law to discover in each Man his own true Nature, that he may in due Season accomplish it not only for himself, but for all who are bound unto him. There are very many for whom in their present Incarnations this Great Work may be impossible; since their appointed Work may be in Satisfaction of some Magical Debt, or in Adjustment of some Balance, or in Fulfilment of some Defect. As is written: Suum Cuique.

Now because thou art the Child of my Bowels, I yearn greatly towards thee, o my Son, and I strive strongly with my Spirit that by my Wisdom I may make plain thy Way before thee; and thus in many Chapters will I write for thee those things that may profit thee. Sis benedictus.

{beta}
DE ARTE KABBALISTICA.

Do thou study most constantly, my Son, in the Art of the Holy Qabalah. Know that herein the Relations between Numbers, though they be mighty in Power and prodigal of Knowledge, are but lesser Things. For the Work is to reduce all other conceptions to these of Number, because thus thou wilt lay bare the very Structure of thy Mind, whose rule is Necessity rather than Prejudice. Not until the Universe is thus laid naked before thee canst thou truly anatomize it. The Tendencies of thy Mind lie deeper far than any Thought, for they are the Conditions and the Laws of Thought; and it is these that thou must bring to Nought.

This Way is most sure; most sacred; and the Enemies thereof most awful, most sublime. It is for the Great Souls to enter on this Rigour and Austerity. To them the Gods themselves do Homage; for it is the Way of Utmost Purity.

{gamma}
DE VITA CORRIGENDA.

Know, son, that the true Principle of Self-Control is Liberty. For we are born into a World which is in Bondage to Ideals; to them we are perforce fitted, even as the Enemies to the Bed of Procrustes. Each of us, as he grows, learns Repression of himself and his true Will. "It is a lie, this folly against self.": these Words are written in The Book of the Law. So therefore these Passions in ourselves which we understand to be Hindrances are not part of our True Will, but diseased Appetites, manifest in us through false early Training. Thus the Tabus of savage Tribes in such matter as Love constrain that True Love which is born in us; and by this Constraint come ills of Body and Mind. Either the Force of Repression carries it, and creates Neuroses and Insanities; or the Revolt against that Force, breaking forth with Violence, involves Excesses and Extravagances. All these Things are Disorders, and against Nature. Now then learn of me the testimony of History and literature as a great Scroll of Learning. But the Vellum of the Scroll is of Man's Skin, and its Ink of his Heart's Blood.

{delta}
LEGENDA DE AMORE.

The Fault, that is Fatality, in Love, as in every other Form of Will, is Impurity. It is not the Spontaneity thereof which worketh Woe, but some Repression in the Environment.

In the Fable of Adam and Eve is this great Lesson taught by the Masters of the Holy Qabalah. For Love were to them the eternal Eden, save for the Repression signified by the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. Thus their Nature of Love was perfect; it was their Fall from that Innocence which drove them from the Garden.

In the Love of Romeo and Juliet was no Flaw; but family Feud, which imported nothing to that Love, was its Bane; and the Rashness and Violence of their Revolt against that Repression, slew them.

In the pure Outrush of Love in Desdemona for Othello was no Flaw; but his Love was marred by his consciousness of his Age and his Race, of the Prejudices of his Fellows and of his own Experience of Woman-Frailty.

{epsilon}
GESTA DE AMORE.

Now as Literature overfloweth with the Murders of Love, so also doeth History, and the Lesson is ever the same.

Thus the Loves of Abelard and of Heloise were destroyed by the System of Repression in which they chanced to move.

Thus Beatrice was robbed of Dante by social Artificialities; and Paolo slain on account of Things external to his Love of Francesca.

Then, per contra, Martin Luther, being a Giant of Will, and also the Eighth Henry of England, as a mighty King, bent them to overturn the whole World that they might have satisfaction of their Loves.

And who shall follow them? For even now we find great Churchmen, Statesmen, Princes, Dramamakers, and many lesser Men, overwhelmed utterly and ruined by the conflict between their Passions and the Society about them. Wherein which Party errs is no matter of Moment for our Thought; but the Existence of the War is Evidence of Wrong done to Nature.

{digamma}
ULTIMA THESIS DE AMORE.

Therefore, o my Son, be thou wary, not bowing before the false Idols and ideals, yet not flaming forth in Fury against them, unless that be thy Will.

But in this Matter be prudent and be silent, discerning subtly and with acumen the nature of the Will within thee; so that thou mistake not Fear for Chastity, or Anger for Courage. And since the fetters are old and heavy, and thy Limbs withered and distorted by reason of their Compulsion, do thou, having broken them, walk gently for a little while, until the ancient Elasticity return, so that thou mayst walk, run, and leap naturally and with Rejoicing.

Also, since these Fetters are as a Bond almost universal, be instant to declare the Law of Liberty, and the full Knowledge of all Truth that appertaineth to this Matter; for if in this only thou overcome, then shall all Earth be free, taking its Pleasure in Sunlight without Fear or Phrenzy. Amen.

{zeta}
DE NATURA SUA PERCIPIENDA.

Understand, o my Son, in thy Youth, these Words which some wise One, now nameless, spake of old; except ye become as little Children ye shall in no wise enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. This is to say that thou must first comprehend thine original Nature in every Point, before thou wast forced to bow before the Gods of Wood and Stone that Men have made, not comprehending the Law of Change, and of Evolution Through Variation, and the independent Value of every living Soul.

Learn this also, that even the Will to the Great Work may be misunderstood of Men; for this Work must proceed naturally and without Overstress, as all true Works. Right also is that Word that the Kingdom of Heaven suffereth Violence, and the violent take it by Force. But except thou be violent by Virtue of thy true Nature, how shalt thou take it? Be not as the Ass in the Lion's Skin; but if thou be born Ass, bear patiently thy Burdens, and enjoy thy Thistles; for an Ass also, as in the Fables of Apuleius and Matthias, may come to Glory in the Path of his own Virtue.

{eta}
ALTERA DE VIA NATURAE.

Sayest thou (methinks) that here is a great Riddle, since by Reason of much Repression thou hast lost the Knowledge of thine original Nature?

My son, this is not so; for by a peculiar Ordinance of Heaven, and a Disposition occult within his Mind, is every Man protected from this Loss of his own Soul, until and unless he be by Choronzon disintegrated and dispersed beyond power of Will to repair; as when the Conflict within him, rending and burning, hath made his Mind utterly desert, and his Soul Madness.

Give Ear, give Ear attentively; the Will is not lost; though it be buried beneath a life-old midden of Repressions, for it persisteth vital within thee (is it not the true Motion of thine inmost Being?) and for all thy conscious Striving cometh forth by Night and by Stealth in Dream and Phantasy. Now is it naked and brilliant, now clothed in rich Robes of Symbol and Hieroglyph; but always travelleth it with thee upon thy Path, ready to acquaint thee with thy true Nature, if thou attend unto its Word, its Gesture, or its Show of Imagery.

{theta}
QUO MODO NATURA SUA EST LEGENDA.

Therefore deem not that thy lightest Fancy is insignificant. Thy most unconscious Acts are Keys to the Treasure-Chamber of thine own Palace, which is the House of the Holy Ghost. Consider well thy conscious Thoughts and Acts, for they are under the Dominion of thy Will, and moved in Accord with the Operation of thy Reason; this indeed is a necessary work, enabling to comprehend in what manner thou mayst adjust thyself to thine Environment. Yet is this Adaptation but Defence for the most Part, or at the best Subterfuge and Stratagem in the Tactics of thy Life, with but an accidental and subordinate Relation to thy true Will, whereof by Consciousness and by Reason thou mayst be ignorant, unless by Fortune great and rare thou be already harmonized in thyself, the Outer with the Inner, which Grace is not common among Men, and is the Reward of previous Attainment.

Neglect not simple Introspections, therefore; but give yet greater Heed unto those Dreams and Phantasies, those Gestures and Manners unconscious, and of undiscovered Cause, which betoken thee.

{iota}
DE SOMNIIS.

a. CAUSA PER ACCIDENS.

As all diseases have two conjunct causes, one immediate, external and exciting, the other constitutional, internal, and predisposing, so it is with Dreams, which are Dis-Eases, or unbalanced States of Consciousness, Disturbers of Sleep as Thoughts are of Life.

This exciting Cause is commonly of two kinds: videlicet, imprimis, the physical Condition of the Sleeper, as a Dream of Water caused by a shower without, or a Dream of Strangulation caused by a Dyspnoea, or a Dream of Lust caused by the seminal Congestions of an unclean Life, or a Dream of falling or flying caused by some unstable Equilibrium of Body.

Secundo, the psychic condition of the Sleeper, the Dream being determined by recent Events in his Life, usually those of the Day previous, and especially such Events as have caused Excitement of Anxiety, the more so if they be unfinished or unfulfilled.

But this exciting Cause is of a superficial Nature, as it were a Cloke or a Mask; and thus it but lendeth Aspect to the other Cause, which lieth in the Nature of the Sleeper himself.

{kappa}
DE SOMNIIS.

{beta}CAUSA PER NATURAM.

The deep, constitutional, or predisposing Cause of Dreams lieth within the Jurisdiction of the Will itself. For that Will, being alway present, albeit (it may be) latent, discovereth himself when no longer inhibited by that conscious Control which is determined by Environment, and therefore of times contrary to himself. This being so, the Will declareth himself, as it were in a Pageant, and showeth himself thus apparelled, unto the Sleeper, for a Warning or Admonition. Every Dream, or Pageant of Fancy, is therefore a Shew of Will; and Will being no more prevented by Environment or by Consciousness, cometh as a Conqueror. Yet even so he must come for the most Part throned upon the Chariot of the exciting Cause of the Dream, and therefore is his Appearance symbolic, like a Writing in Cipher, or like a Fable, or like a Riddle in Pictures. But alway does he triumph and fulfil himself therein, for the Dream is a natural Compensation in the inner World for any Failure of Achievement in the outer.

{lambda}
DE SOMNIIS.

{gamma}VESTIMENTA HORRORIS.

Now then if in a Dream the Will be always triumphant, how cometh it that a Man may be ridden of the Nightmare? And of this the true Explanation is that in such a case the Will is in Danger, having been attacked and wounded or corrupted by the Violence of some Repression. Thus the Consciousness of the Will is directed to the sore Spot, as in Pain, and seeketh comfort in an Externalisation, or shew, of that Antagonism. And because the Will is sacred, such dreams excite an Ecstacy or Phrenzy of Horror, Fear or Disgust. Thus the true Will of Oedipus was toward the bed of Jocasta, but the Tabu, strong both by Inheritance and by Environment, was so attached to that Will that his Dream concerning his Destiny was a Dream of Fear and of Abhorrence, his Fulfilment thereof (even in Ignorance) a spell to stir up all the subconscious Forces of all the People about him, and his Realization of the Act a madness potent to drive him to self-inflicted Blindness and fury-haunted Exile.

{mu}
DE SOMNIIS.

{delta}SEQUENTIA.

Know firmly, o my son, that the true Will cannot err; for this is thine appointed course in Heaven, in whose order is Perfection.

A Dream of Horror is therefore the most serious of all Warnings; for it signifieth that thy Will, which is Thy Self in respect of its Motion, is in Affliction and Danger. Thus thou must instantly seek out the Cause of that subconscious Conflict, and destroy thine Enemy utterly by bringing thy conscious Vigour as an Ally to that true Will. If then there be a Traitor in the Consciousness, how much the more is it necessary for thee to arise and extirpate him before he wholly infect thee with the divided Purpose which is the first Breach in that Fortress of the Soul whose Fall should bring it to the shapeless Ruin whose Name is Choronzon!

{nu}
DE SOMNIIS.

{epsilon}CLAVICULA.

The Dream delightful is then a Pageant of the Fulfilment of the true Will, and the Nightmare a symbolic Battle between it and its Assailants in thyself. But there can be only one true Will, even as there can be only one proper Motion in any Body, no matter of how many Forces that Motion be the Resultant. Seek therefore this Will, and conjoin with it thy conscious Self; for this is that which is written; "Thou hast no right but to do thy Will. Do that, and no other shall say nay." Thou seest, o my Son, that all conscious Opposition to thy Will, whether in Ignorance, or by Obstinacy, or through Fear of others, may in the end endanger even thy true Self, and bring thy Star into Disaster.

And this is the true Key to Dreams; see that thou be diligent in its Use, and unlock therewith the secret Chambers of thine Heart.

{xi}
DE VIA PER EMPYRAEUM.

Concerning thy Travellings in thy Body of Light, or Astral journeys and Visions so-called, do thou lay this Wisdom to thy Heart, o my Son, that in this Practice, whether Things Seen and Heard be Truth and Reality, or whether they be Phantoms in the Mind, abideth this Supreme Magical Value, namely: Whereas the Direction of such Journeys is consciously willed, and determined by Reason, and also unconsciously willed, by the true Self, since without It no Invocation were possible, we have here a Cooperation of Alliance between the Inner and the Outer Self, and thus an Accomplishment, at least partial, of the Great Work.

And therefore is Confusion or Terror in any such Practice an Error fearful indeed, bringing about Obsession, which is a temporary or even it may be a permanent Division of the Personality, or Insanity, and therefore a defeat most fatal and pernicious, a Surrender of the Soul to Choronzon.

{omicron}
DE CULTU.

Now, o my Son, that thou mayst be well guarded against thy ghostly Enemies, do thou work constantly by the Means prescribed in our Holy Books.

Neglect never the fourfold Adorations of the Sun in his four Stations, for thereby thou doest affirm thy Place in Nature and her Harmonies.

Neglect not the Performance of the Ritual of the Pentagram, and of the Assumption of the Form of Hoor-pa-Kraat.

Neglect not the daily Miracle of the Mass, either by the Rite of the Gnostic Catholic Church, or that of the Phoenix. Neglect not the Performance of the Mass of the Holy Ghost, as Nature herself prompteth thee.

Travel also much in the Empyrean in the Body of Light, seeking ever Abodes more fiery and lucid.

Finally, exercise constantly the Eight Limbs of Yoga. And so shalt thou come to the End.

{pi}
DE CLAVICULA SOMNIORUM.

And now concerning Meditation let me disclose unto thee more fully the Mystery of the Key of Dreams and Phantasies.

Learn first that as the Thought of the Mind standeth before the Soul and hindereth its Manifestation in consciousness, so also the gross physical Will is the Creator of the Dreams of common Men, and as in Meditation thou doest destroy every Thought by mating it with its Opposite, so must thou cleanse thyself by a full and perfect Satisfaction of that bodily will in the Way of Chastity and Holiness which has been revealed unto thee in thy Initiation.

This inner Silence of the Body being attained, it may be that the true Will may speak in True Dreams; for it is written that He giveth unto His Beloved in Sleep.

Prepare thyself therefore in this Way, as a good Knight should do.

{koppa}
DE SOMNO LUCIDO.

Now know this also that at the End of that secret Way lieth a Garden wherein is a Rest House prepared for thee.

For to him whose physical Needs of whatever Kind are not truly satisfied cometh a Lunar or physical Sleep appointed to refresh and recreate by Cleansing and Repose; but on him that is bodily pure the Lord bestoweth a Solar or Lucid Sleep, wherein move Images of pure Light fashioned by the True Will. And this is called by the Qabalists the Sleep of Shiloam, and of this doeth also Porphyry make mention mention, and Cicero, with many other Wise Men of Old Time.

Compare, o my Son, with this Doctrine that which was taught thee in the Sanctuary of the Gnosis concerning the Death of the Righteous; and learn moreover that these are but particular Cases of an Universal Formula.

{rho}
DE VENENIS.

My Son, if thou fast awhile, there shall come unto thee a second State of physiological Being, in which is a delight passive and equable, without Will, a contentment of Weakness, with a Feeling of Lightness and of Purity. And this is because the Blood hath absorbed, in its Need of Nutriment, all foreign Elements. Such also is the Case with the Mind which hath not fed itself on Thought. Consider the placid and ruminent Existence of such Persons as read little, are removed from worldy Struggle by some sufficient Property of small and unexciting Value, stably invested, and by Age and Environment are free from Passion. They live, according to their own Nature, without Desire, and they oppose no Resistance to the Operations of Time. Such are called Happy, and in their Way of Vegetable Life it is so; for they are free of any Poison.

{sigma}
DE MOTU VITAE.

Learn then, o my Son, that all Phenomena are the effect of Conflict, even as the Universe itself is a Nothing expressed as the Difference of two Equalities, or, an thou wilt, as the Divorce of Nuit and Hadit. So therefore every Marriage dissolveth a more material, and createth a less material Complex; and this is our Way of Live, rising ever from Ecstasy to Ecstasy. So then all high Violence, that is to say, all Consciousness, is the spiritual Orgasm of a Passion between two lower and grosser Opposites. Thus Light and Heat result from the Marriage of Hydrogen and Oxygen; Love from that of Man and Woman, Dhyana or Ecstasy from that of the Ego and the non-Ego.

But be thou well grounded in this Thesis corollary, that one or two such Marriages do but destroy for a Time the Exacerbation of any Complex; to deracinate such is a Work of long Habit and deep Search in Darkness for the Germ thereof. But this once accomplished, that particular Complex is destroyed, or sublimated for ever.

{tau}
DE MORBIS SANGUINIS.

Now then understand that all Opposition to the Way of Nature createth Violence. If thine excretory System do its Function not at its fullest, there come Poisons in the Blood, and the Consciousness is modified by the conflicts or Marriages between the elements heterogeneous. Thus if the Liver be not efficient, we have Melancholy; if the Kidneys, Coma; if the Testes or Ovaries, loss of Personality itself. Also, an we poison the Blood directly with Belladonna, we have Delirium vehement and furious; with Hashish, Visions phantastic and enormous; with Anhiolonium, Ecstasy of colour and what not; with diverse Germs of Disease, Disturbances of Consciousness varying with the Nature of the Germ. Also with Ether, we gain the Power of analysing the Consciousness into its Planes; and so for many others.

But all these are, in our mystical Sense, Poisons; that is, we take two Things diverse and opposite, binding them together so that they are compelled to unite; and the Orgasm of each Marriage is an Ecstasy, the Lower dissolving in the Higher.

{upsilon}
DE CURSU AMORIS.

I continue then, o my son, and reiterate that this Formula is general to all Nature. And thou wilt note that by repeated Marriage cometh Toleration, so the Ecstasy appeareth no more. Thus his half grain of Morphia, which first opened his Gates of Heaven, is nothing worth to the Self-poisoner after a Year of daily Practice. So too the Lover findeth no more Joy in Union with his Mistress, so soon as the original Attraction between them is satisfied by repeated Conjunctions. For this Attraction is an Antagonism; and the greater this Antinomy, the more fierce the Puissance of the Magnetism, and the Quality of Energy disengaged by the Coition.

Thus in the Union of Similars, as of Halogens with each other, is no strong Passion of explosive Force, and the Love between two Persons of the like Character and Taste is placid and without Transmutation to higher Planes.

{phi}
DE NUPTIIS MYSTICIS.

O my Son, how wonderful is the Wisdom of this Law of Love! How vast are the Oceans of uncharted Joy that lie before the Keel of thy Ship! Yet know this, that every Opposition is in its Nature named Sorrow, and the Joy lieth in the Destruction of the Dyad. Therefore, must thou seek ever those Things which are to thee poisonous, and that in the highest Degree, and make them thine by Love. That which repels, that which disgusts, must thou assimilate in this Way of Wholeness. Yet rest not in the Joy of the Destruction of each complex in thy Nature, but press on to that ultimate Marriage with the Universe whose Consummation shall destroy thee utterly, leaving only that Nothingness which was before the Beginning.

So then the Life of Non-Action is not for thee; the Withdrawal from Activity is not the Way of the Tao; but rather the Intensification and making universal every Unit of thine Energy on every Plane.

{chi}
DE VOLUPTATE POENARUM.

Go forth, o my Son, o Son of the Sun, rejoicing in thy Strength, as a Warrior, as a Bridegroom, to take thy Pleasure upon the Earth, and in every Palace of the Mind, moving ever from the crass to the subtle, from the coarse to the fine. Conquer every Repulsion in thy self, subdue every Aversion. Assimilate all Poison, for therein only is there Profit. Seek constantly therefore to know what is painful and to cleave thereunto, for by Pain cometh true Pleasure. Those who avoid Pain physical or mental remain little Men, and there is no Virtue in them. Yet be thou ware lest thou fall into the Heresy which maketh Pain, and Self-sacrifice as it were Bribes to corrupt God, to secure some future Pleasure in an imagined After-life. Nay, also of the other Part, fear not to destroy thy Complexes, thinking dreadfully thereby to lose the Power of creating Joy by their Distinction. Yet in each Marriage be thou bold to affirm the spiritual Ardour of the Orgasm, fixing it in some Talisman, whether it be Art, or Magick, or Theurgy.

{psi}
DE VOLUNTATE ULTIMA.

Say not then that this Way is contrary to Nature, and that in Simplicity of Satisfaction of thy Needs is perfection of thy Path. For to thee, who hast aspired, it is thy Nature to perform the Great Work, and this is the final Dissolution of the Cosmos. For though a Stone seem to lie still on a Mountain Top, and have no care, yet hath it an hidden Nature, a Task Ineffable and Stupendous; namely, to force its Way to he Centre of Gravity of the Universe, and also to burn up its Elements into the final Homogeneity of Matter. Therefore the Way of Quiet is but an Illusion of Ignorance. Whoever thou mayst be now, thy Destiny is that which I have declared unto thee; and thou art most fixed in the true Way when, accepting his consciously as thy Will, thou gathereth up thy Powers to move thy Self mightily within it.

{omega}
DE DIFFERENTIA RERUM.

But, o my Son, although thine ultimate Nature be Universal, thine immediate Nature is Particular. Thy Way to the Centre is not oriented as that of any other Being, and thine elements are no kin, but alien, to his. For Shame! Is it not the most transcendent of all the Wisdoms of this Cosmos, that no two Beings are alike? Lo! This is the Secret of all Beauty, and maketh Love not only possible, but necessary, between every Thing and every other Thing. So then, lest thou in thine Ignorance take the false Way, and divigate, must thou learn thine own particular and peculiar Nature in its Relation to all others. For though it be Illusion, it is by the true Analysis of Falsehoods that we are able to destroy them, just as the Physician must understand the Disease of his Patient if he is to choose the fitting Remedy. Now therefore will I make yet more clear unto thee the Value of thy Dreams and Phantesies and Gestures of thine unconscious Body and Mind, as Symptoms of thy particular Will, and show thee how thy mayst come to their Interpretation.

{Beta }{alpha }
DE MYSTERIO PRUDENTIAE.

Behold now nature, how prodigal is She of her Forces! The evident Will of every Acorn is to become an Oak; yet nigh all fail of that Will. Therefore one Secret of Magick is Oeconomy of thy Force; to do no Act unless secure of its Effect. And if every Act has an Effect on every Plane, how canst thou do this unless thou be connected with all Planes? For this Reason must thou know thoroughly not only thy Body and thy Mind, but thy Body of Light and all its subtler Principles soever. But I will have thee consider most especially what powers thou hast within thee which are certainly capable of great Effects, yet which are constantly wasted. Think then whether, if these Powers, frustrate of their End upon one Plane, might not be turned to high Purpose and assured Success upon another. For an hundred Acorns, rightly set in Conditions fit for their true Growth, will become an hundred Oaks, while otherwise they make but one Meal for one Hog, and their subtle Nature is wholly lost to them. Learn then, o my Son, this Mystery of Oeconomy, and apply it faithfully and with Diligence in thy Work.

{Beta }{beta }
DE ARTE ALCHEMICA.

Here then I must write concerning Talismans for thine Instruction. Know first that there are certain Vehicles proper for the Incarnation of the Will. I instance Paper, whereon by thine Art thou writest a symbolic Representation of thy Will, so that when thou next seest it, thou are reminded of that Will, or it may be that another, seeing it, will obey that Will. Here then is a case of Incarnation and Assumption, which, before it was understood, was rightly considered Gramarye or Magick. Again, thy Will to live causeth thee to plant Corn, which in due Season being eaten is again transmuted into Will. Thus thou mayst in many Ways impress any particular Will upon the proper Substance, so that by due Use thou comest at last to its Accomplishment. So general is this Formula, in Truth, that all conscious Actions may be included within its scope. There is also the Converse, as when external Objects create Appetite, whose Satisfaction again reacteth upon the physical Plane. Praise thou the wonder of the Mystery of Nature, rising and falling with every Breath, so that there is no Part which is not mystically Partaker of the Whole.

{Beta }{gamma }
DE ARCANO SUBTILISSIMO.

O my Son, there is that within thee of marvellous Puissance which is by its own Nature the Incarnation of thy Will, most ready to receive the Seal thereof. Therein lie hidden all Powers, all Memories, more than thou hast teen thousand fold! Learn then to draw from that great Treasure-House the Jewel of which thou art in any present Need. For all things that are possible to thy Nature are already hidden within thee; and thou hast but to name them, and to bring them back into the Light of thy Consciousness. Then squander not this Gold of thine, but put it to most fruitful Usury. Now then of the Art and Craft of this most Holy Mystery I write not, for a Reason that thou already knowest. Moreover, in this Matter, thou shalt best learn by thine own Experience, and thine Observation in true Science shall guide thee. For this Secret is still of Magick, and Occult, so that I know not certainly if thy Will lieth with my Way or no.

{Beta }{delta }
DE MENSTRUO ARTIS.

But concerning the Medium by whose sensitive Nature our Magick Force is transmitted to the Object of our Working, doubt not. For already in other Galaxies of Physics have we been compelled to postulate an Aethyr wholly hypothetical in order to explain the Phenomena of Light, Electricity, and the like; nor doeth any Man demand Demonstration of the Existence of that Aethyr other than its Conformity with general Law. Thou therefore, Creator and Transmitter of thine own Energy, needest not to ask whether by this or by some other Means thou performest thy Work. Yet I know not why this Aethyr of the Mathematicians and the Physicians should not be one with the Astral Light, or Plastic Medium or Aub, Aud, Aur (these three being a Trinity) of which our own Sages have spoken. And this Meditation may bring forth much Knowledge physical, which is good, for that which is above is like that which is beneath, and the Study of any Law leadeth to the Understanding of all Law. So mayst thou learn in the End that there is no Law beyond Do what thou wilt.

{Beta }{epsilon }
DE NECESSITATE VOLUNTATIS.

And how then (mayest thou) shall I reconcile this Art Magick with that Way of the Tao which achieveth all Things by doing nothing? But this have I already declared to thee in Part, showing that thou canst do no Magick save it be thy Nature to do Magick and so the true Nothing for thee. For to do nothing signifieth to interfere with nothing so that for a Magician to do no Magick is to commit Violence on himself. Yet learn also that all Action is in some sense Magick, being an essential Part of that Great Magical Work which we call Nature. Then thou hast no free Will? Verily, thou hast said. Yet nevertheless it is thy necessary Destiny to act with that free Will. Thou canst do nothing save in accordance with that true Nature of thine and of all Things, and every Phenomenon is the Resultant of the Totality of Forces; Amen. Then thou needest take no Thought and make no Effort? Thou sast sooth; yet, art thou not compelled to Thought and Effort in the Way of Nature? Yea, I, thy Father, work for thee solicitously, and also I laugh at thy Perplexities; for so was it fore-ordained that I should do, by Me, from the Beginning.

{Beta }{digamma }
DE COMEDIA UNIVERSA, QUAE DICTUR PAN.

So, therefore, o my Son, count thyself happy when thou understandest all these Things, being one of those Beings (or By-comings) whom we call Philosophers. All is a never ending Play of Love wherein our Lady Nuit and her Lord Hadit rejoice; and every Part of the Play is Play. All pain is but sharp Sauce to the Dish of Pleasure; for it is the Nature of the Universe that hath devised this everlasting Banquet of Joy. And he that knoweth not this is necessary as an Ingredient even as thou art; wouldst thou change all and spoil the Dish? Art thou the Master-Cook? Yea, for thy Palate is become fine with thy great Dalliance with the Food of Experience; therefore thou art one of them that rejoice. Also it is thy Nature as it is mine, o my Son, to will that all Men share our Mirth and Jollity; wherefore have I proclaimed my Law to Man, and thou continuest in that Work of Joyance.

{Beta }{zeta }
DE CAECITIA HOMINUM.

Learn also of my wisdom that this Vision of the Cosmos whereof I have written unto thee is not given unto thy Sight at all Times; for in that Vision is all Will fulfilled. Thou seest the Universe as None, and as One, and as many, and the Play thereof; and therewith art thou (who art no longer thou) content. For in one Phase art thou also None, in another One, and in the third an organised and necessary Part of that great Structure, so that there is no more conflict at all in thy whole By-coming. But now will I make Light for thine Eyes in this Matter as thou gropest, asking: but of them that see not this, what sayst thou, o my Father? But in that Vision thou sayst not thus, my Son! Learn then of me the Secret Mystery of Illusion, and how it Worketh, and other Holy Law that is its Nature, and of thine Action therein; for this is an Arcanum of the Wisdom of the Magi, and proper unto thee that dwellest in the Land of Understanding.

{Beta }{eta }
ALLEGORIA DE CAISSA.

Consider for an Example the Game and Play of the Chess, which is a Pastime of Man, and worthy to exercise him in Thought, yet by no means necessary to his Life, so that he sweepeth away Board and Pieces at the least Summons of that which is truly dear to him. Thus unto him this Game is as it were an Illusion. But insofar as he entereth into the Game he abideth by the Rules thereof, though they be artificial and in no wise proper to his Nature; for in this Restriction is all this Pleasure. Therefore, though he hath All-Oower to move the Pieces at his own Will, he doth it not, enduring Loss, Indignity, and Defeat rather than destroy that Artifice of Illusion. Think then that thou hast thyself created this Shadow-world the Universe, and that it pleasureth thee to watch or to actuate its Play according to the Law that thou hast made, which yet bindeth thee not save only by Virtue of thine own Will to do thine own Pleasure therein.

{Beta }{theta }
DE VERITATE FALSI.

Moreover this Matter touches the Nature of Truth. For although to thee in thy True Self, absolute and without Conditions, all this Universe, which is relative and conditioned is an Illusion; yet to that Part of Thee by which thou perceivest it, the Law of its Being (or By-coming) is a Law of Truth. Learn then that all Relations are true upon their own Plane, and that it would be a Violation of Nature to adjust them skewwise. Thus, albeit thou hast found thy Self, and knowest Thy Self immortal and immutable beyond Time and Space, free of Causality, so thoroughly that even thy Mind partaketh constantly thereof, thou hast in no wise altered the Relations of thy Body with its Syndromics in the World whereof it is a Part. Wouldst thou lengthen the Life of thy Body? Then accommodate thou the Conditions of thy Body to its Environment by giving it Light, Air, Food, and Exercise as its Nature requireth. So also, mutatis mutandis, do thou cherish the Health of thy Mind.

{Beta }{iota }
DE RELATIONE ILLUSIONUM.

Of this will I speak further with thee, for here behold a great Rock of Ignorance on the one Hand, and on the other a Whirlpool of Error; in this Strait are many Wrecks of Magick Ships. Knowest thou not that Riddle of old, whether it be lawful to pay Tribute to Caesar or no? Give therefore to the Body the Things of the Body, and to the Mind the Things of the Mind. Yet because of the interior Harmony of all Things that proceedeth from their Original One Nature, there is Action and Reaction of the one upon the other, as I have already set forth in this mine Epistle. But Law is universal, and between these two Kinds of Illusion there is an ordered Proportion, and it is proper to thy Science to delimit and describe this Law of Interaction, for to deny it wholly (as to extend it to Infinity) is Folly, born of Ignorance, Idleness, and Incapacity to observe Fact.

{Beta }{kappa }
DE PRUDENTIA.

Consider Drunkenness, how by Variation of bodily Conditions thou mayst alter its Effect upon the Mind, and the Contrary, remembering the Discipline of Theophrastus Paracelsus, how, opposing Wine to bodily Exercise, he obtained a certain Purification and Exaltation/ Yet, were he seven times greater, he had not done this with Oil of Vitriol. Learn then that there are certain definite Channels of Action and Reaction between Body and Mind; sound these, and trim thy Sails accordingly, not thinking that thou art in the open Sea. And if so be that thou in thy sounding findest new Channels, rejoice and map them for the Profit of thy Fellows; But remember always that to find a new Way up a Precipice removeth not the Precipice. For where thou, o Angel and yet Man, hast trod delicately albeit without Fear, Fools will rush in to their Destruction.

{Beta }{lambda }
DE RATIONE MAGI VITAE.

Study Logic, which is the Code of the Laws of Thought. Study the Method of Science, which is the Application of Logic to the Facts of the Universe. Think not that thou canst ever abrogate these Laws, for though they be Limitations, they are the rules of thy Game which thou dost play. For in thy Trances though thou becomest That which is not subject to those Laws, they are still final in respect of these Things which thou hast set them to govern. Nay, o my son, I like not this Word, govern, for a Law is but a Statement of the nature of the Thing to which it applieth. Nor nothing is compelled save only by Nature of its own true Will. So therefore human Law is a Statement of the Will and of the Nature of Man, or else it is a Falsity contrary thereunto, and becometh null and of no Effect.

{Beta }{mu }
DE CORDE CANDIDO.

Think also, o my Son, of this Image, that if two States be at Peace, a Man goeth between them without Let; but if there be War, all Gateways are forthwith closed, save only for a few, and these are watched and guarded, so that the Obstacles are many. This then is the Case of Magick; for if thou have brought to Harmony all Principles within thee, thou mayst work easily to transmute a Force into its semblable upon another Plane, which is the essential Miracle of our Art; but if thou be at War within thyself, how canst thou work? For our Master Hermes Tresmegistus hat written at the Head of His Tablet of Emerald this Word: That which is above is like that which is below, and that which is below is like that which is above, for the Performance of the Miracle of the One Substance. How then, if these be not alike? If the Substance of Thee be Two, and not One? And herein is the Need of the Confession of a pure Heart, as is written in the Book of the Dead.

{Beta }{nu }
DE CONFORMITATE MAGI.

See to it therefore, o my Son, that thou in thy Working dost no Violence to the whole Will of the All, or to the Will common to all those Beings (or By-comings) that are of one general Nature with thee, or to thine own particular Will. For first of all thou art necessarily moved toward the One End from thine own Station, but secondly thou art moved toward the End proper to thine own Race, and Caste, and Family, as by Virtue of thy Birth. And these are, I may say it, Conditions or limits, of thine own individual Will. Thou dost laugh? Err not, my Son! The Magus, even as the Poet is the Expression of the true Will of his Fellows, and his Success is his Proof, as it is written in The Book of the Law. For his Work is to free Men from the Fetters of a false or a superannuated Will, revealing unto them, in Measure attuned to their Needs, their true Natures.

{Beta }{xi }
DE POETIS.

For this Reason is the Poet called an Incarnation of the Zeitgeist, that is, of the Spirit or Will of his Period. So every Poet is also a Prophet, because when that which he sayeth is recognized as the Expression of their own Thought by Men, they translate this into Act, so that, in the Parlance of he Folk vulgar and ignorant, "that which he foretold is come to pass". Now then the Poet is Interpreter of the Hieroglyphs of the Hidden Will of Man in many a matter, some light, some deep, as it may be given unto him to do. Moreover, it is not altogether in the Word of any Poem, but in the quintessential Flavour of the Poet, that thou mayst seek this Prophecy. And this is an Art most necessary to every Statesman. Who but Shelley foretold the Fall of Christianity, and the Organisation of Labour, and the Freedom of Woman; who by Nietzsche declared the Principle at the Root of the World-War? See thou clearly then that in these Men were the Keys of the Dark Gates of the Future; Should not the Kings and their Ministers have taken heed thereto, fulfilling their Word without Conflict.

{Beta }{omicron }
DE MAGIS ORDINIS A{.·.} A{.·.}
QUIBUS CARO FIT VERBUM.

Now, o my Son, the Incarnation of a Poet is particular and not Universal; he sayeth indeed true Things but not the Things of All-Truth. And that these may be said it is necessary that One take human Flesh, and become a Magus in our Holy Order. He then is called the Logos, or Logos Aionos, that is to say, he Word of the Aeon or Age, because he is verily that Word. And thus may be be known, because He hath it given unto Him to prepare the Quintessence of the Will of God, that is, of Man, in its Fullness and Wholeness, comprehending all Planes, so that his Law is simple, and radical, penetrating all Space from its single Light. For though His Words be many, yet is His Word One, One and Alone; and by this Word he createth Man anew, in an essential Form of Life, so that he is changed in his inmost Knowledge of himself. And this Change worketh outwards, little by little, unto its visible Effect.

{Beta }{pi }
DE MAGIS TEMPORI ANTIQUI:
IMPRIMIS, DE LAO-TZE.

It may be unto thy Profit, o my Son, if I relate unto thee the secret History of those who have gone before me in this Grade of Magus, so far as their Memory hath remained among Mankind. For what would it avail thee should I recount the deeds of those whom I indeed may know, but thou not? Thou knowest well how I keep me from all Taint of Fable, or any Word unproven and undemonstrable. First then I speak of Lao-Tze, whose word was the TAO. Hereof have I already written much unto thee, because His Doctrine has been lost or misinterpreted, and it is most needful to restore it. For this Tao is the true Nature of Things, being itself a Way or Going, that is, a kinetic and not a static Conception. Also He taught this Way of Harmony in Will, which I myself have thought to show thee in this little book. So then this Tao is Truth, and the Way of Truth, and therefore was He Logos of His Aeon, and His true Name or Word was Tao.

{Beta }{koppa }
DE GAUTAMA.

Whom Men call Gotama, or Siddartha, or the Buddha, was a Magus of our Holy Order. And His Word was ANATTA; for the Root of His whole Doctrine was that there is no Atman, or Soul, as Men ill translate it, meaning a Substance incapable of Change. Thus, He, like Lao-Tze, based all upon a Movement, instead of a fixed Point. And His Way of Truth was Analysis, made possible by great Intention of the Mind toward itself, and that well fortified by certain tempered Rigour of Life. And He most thoroughly explored and Mapped out the Fastnesses of the Mind, and gave the Keys of its Fortresses into the Hand of Man. But of all this the Quintessence is in this one Word Anatta, because this is not only the foundation and the Result of his whole Doctrine, but the Way of its Work.

{Beta }{rho }
DE SRI KRISHNA ET DE DIONYSO.

Krishna has Names and Forms innumerable, and I know not His true Human Birth, for His Formula is of the Major Antiquity. But His Word hath spread into many Lands, and we know it to-day as INRI with the secret IAO concealed therein. And the Meaning of this Word is the Working of Nature in Her Changes; that is, it is the Formula of Magick whereby all Things reproduce and recreate themselves. Yet this Extension and Specialisation was rather the Word of Dionysus; for the true Word of Krishna was AUM, importing rather a Statement of the Truth of Nature than a practical Instruction in detailed Operations of Magick. But Dionysus, by the Word INRI, laid the Foundation of all Science, as We say Science to-day in a particular Sense, that is, of causing external Nature to change in Harmony with our Wills.

{Beta }{sigma }
DE TAHUTI.

Tahuti, or Thot, confirmed the Word of Dionysus by continuing it; for he showed how by the Mind it was possible to direct the Operations of the Will. By Criticism and by recorded Memory Man avoideth Error. But the true Word of Tahuti was AMOUN, whereby He made Men to understand their secret Nature, that is, their Unity with their true Selves, or, as they then phrased it, with God. And He discovered unto them the Way of this Attainment, and its Relation with the Formula of INRI. Also by His Mystery of Number He made plain the Path for His Successor to declare the Nature of the whole Universe in its Form and in its Structure, as it were an Analysis thereof, doing for Matter what the Buddha was decreed to do for Mind.

{Beta }{tau }
DE QUODAM MAGO AEGYPTIORUM, QUEM APPELUNT JUDAEI MOSHEH.

The Follower of Tahuti was an Egyptian whose Name is lost; but the Jews called Him Mosheh, or Moses, and their Fabulists made Him the Leader of their Legendary Exodus. Yet they preserved His Word, and it is IHVH, which thou must understand also as that Secret Word which thou hast seen and heard in Thunders and Lightnings in thine Initiation to the Degree thou wottest of. But this Word is itself a Plan of the Fabrick of the Universe, and upon it hath been elaborated the Holy Qabalah, whereby we have Knowledge of the Nature of all Things soever upon every Plane of By-coming, and of their Forces and Tendencies and Operations, with the Keys to their Portals. Nor did He leave any Part of His Work unfinished, unless it be that accomplished three hundred Years ago by Sir Edward Kelly, of whom I also come, as thou knowest.

{Beta }{upsilon }
DE MAGO ARABICO MOHAMMED.

Behold! In these Chapters have I, thy Father, restricted myself, not speaking of any immediate Echo of a Word in the World, because, there Men being long since withdrawn into their Silence, it is their One Word, and that Alone, that resoundeth undiminished through Time. How Mohammed, who followeth, is darkened and confused by His Nearness to our own Time, so that I say not save with Diffidence that His Word ALLH may mean this or that. But I am bold concerning His Doctrine of the Unity of God, for God is Man, and he said therefore: Man is One. And His Will was to unite all Men in One reasonable Faith: to make possible international Co- operation in Science. Yet, because He arose in the Time of the greatest possible Corruption and Darkness, when every Civilisation and Every Religion had fallen into Ruin, by the malice of the great Sorcerer of Nazareth, as some say, He is still hidden in the Dust of the Simoom, and we may not perceive Him in His true Self of Glory.

Nevertheless, behold, o My Son, this Mystery. His true Word was LA ALLH, that is to say: (there is) No God, and LA AL is that Mystery of Mysteries which thine own Eye pierced in thine Initiation. And of that Truth have the Illusion and Falsehood enslaved the Souls of Men, as is written in the Book of the Magus.

{Beta }{phi }
DE SE IPSO {Tau }{Omega }{Iota } {Mu }{Epsilon }{Gamma }{Alpha }{Lambda }{Omega }{Iota }
{Theta }{Eta }{Rho }{Iota }{Omega }{Nu }{Omicron}{Iota }, {Tau }{Omega }{Iota } {Lambda }{Omicron }{Gamma }{Omega }{Iota }
{Alpha }{Iota }{Omega }{Nu }{Omicron }{Sigma } CUJUS VERBUM EST {Theta }{Epsilon }{Lambda }{Eta }{Mu }{Alpha }.

O my son! me seemeth in certain Hours that I am myself fallen on a Time even more fearful and fatal than did Mohammed, peace be upon Him! But I read clearly the Word of the Aeon, that is ABRAHADABRA, wherein is the whole Mystery of the great Work, as thou knowest. And I have The Book of the Law, that was given unto me by Him thou wottest of; and it is the Interpretation of the Secret Will of Man on every Plane of his By-coming; and the Word of the Law is THELEMA. 'Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law." Now because "Love is the law, love under will." do I write this Epistle for thee, that thou mayst fulfil this inmost Will of Mankind, making them capable of Light, Live, Love and Liberty by the Acceptance of this Law. And the Hindrance thereunto is but as the Shell of its Egg to an Eaglet, a Thing foreign to itself, a Protection till the Hour strike, and then --- no more!

{Beta }{chi }
MANDATUM AD FILIUM SUUM.

Here I reach forth mine Hands against thee in the Sign of the Enterer, o son of my Bowels, for with all my Magical Might I will that thou fight manfully and labour with Diligence (with Sword and Trowel; say I) in this Work. For this is the first and last of all, that thou bid every Man do What he will, in accord with his own true Nature. Therefore also blast thou that Lie that Man is of a fallen and evil Nature. For the Word of Sin is Restriction, the Doubt of his own Godhead, the Suppression of, which is the Blasphemy against, his own Holy Spirit. Saith not "The Book of the Law" that "...It is a lie, this folly against self. ..."? Therefore to every Man, in every Circumstance, say thou: Do what thou wilt; and teach him, if he yet waver, how to discover his true Nature, earnestly and with Ardour, even as I have striven to each thee --- yea, and more also!

{Beta }{psi }
QUARE FILIUM CREAVIT: UT FIAT LIBERTAS.

Do what thou wilt! be this our Slogan of Battle in every Act; for every Act is Conflict. There Victory leapeth shining before us; for who may thwart true Will, which is the Order of Nature Herself? "...thou hast no right but to do thy will. Do that, and no other shall say nay." For if that Will be true, its Fulfilment is of a Surety as Daylight following Sunrise. It is as certain as the Operation of any other Law of Nature; it is Destiny. Then, if that Will be obscured, if thou turn from it to Wills diseased or perverse, how canst thou hope? Fool! Even thy Turns and Twists are in the Path to thine appointed End. But thou art not sprung of a Slave's Loins; thou standest firm and straight; thou dost thy Will; and thou are Chosen, nay, for this Work wast thou begotten in a Magick Bed, that thou shouldst make Man free.

{Beta }{omega }
DE SUA DEBILITATE.

Listen attentively, my Son, while I with heavy Heart make Confession to thee of mine own Frailty. Thou knowest that I made Renunciation of my Wage, taking this Body immediately after my Death, the Death of Eliphas Levi Zahed, as Men say, that I might attain to this great Work. It is now twenty Years, as Men count years, that I came to my first Understanding of my true Nature, and aspired to that Work. Now then at first I made no Error. I abandoned my chosen Career; I poured out my whole Fortune without one Thought; I gave my Life utterly to the Work, without keeping back the least imaginable Thing. So then I made swift Strides along the Path. But in the Dhyanas that were granted unto me in Kandy, in the Island of Lanka, I used up my whole Charge of Magical Energy; and for two Years I fell away from the Work.

{Gamma }{alpha }
DE MANU QUAE MAGUM SUSTINET.

Now it may be well that such Periods of Recuperation are necessary to such souls as mine; and so no Ill. But I fell from my Will, and sought other Ends in Life; and so the Hand came upon me, and tore away that which I desired, as thou knowest; also it is written in the Temple of Solomon the King. Yet consider also these two Years as a necessary Preparation for that greatest of all Events which befell me in El-Kahira, in the Land of Khem, the Choice of me as the Word of the Aeon. Now then for a while I worked with my Will, though not wholly; and again the Hand reached forth and smote me. This, albeit my Slackness was but as a Boy playing Truant, not a revolt against my Self. Wherefore, despite all, I made much Progress in short Time.

{Gamma }{beta }
DE SUO PECCATO.

Now then, well schooled, I strove no more against my Nature, and worked with all my Will. Thou knowest well how greatly I was rewarded. Yet in this last Initiation to the Grade of Magus, wherein three-and-seventy Days, as Men count Days, is but One Day, the Ordeal grew so fierce and intolerable that I gave back a Step. I did not utterly renounce the Work, but I swore not to continue unless mine Agony were abated. But after fifteen Days, I came to myself in a certain Ordeal, wherein I knew myself finally, that I could do no other than take up that fearful Burden that had broken my Spirit. And for these fifteen Days have I not suffered infinite Things? Was not the Tree of my Work frozen, one Branch withered, and on blasted? Look no more, o my son, upon thy Father's Shame!

{Gamma }{gamma }
DE SUA VICTORIA PER NOMEN BABALON.

And after? This Dawn (for I have toiled through the Night in my great Love and Care of thee) how is it with me? it is well. For I have found myself; I have found my Will; the Obstacles that daunted me are seen to be by the Shadows of Shadows. Grace be unto Lady BABALON.

Thus it is written in "The Book of the Law": "Remember all ye that existence is pure joy; that all the sorrows are but as shadows; they pass & are done; but there is that which remains."

Learn then that it is in the contemplation of Division that Sorrow is, for Division is the Formula of Choronzon. It is herefore discreet for thee to unite each element of Sorrow with its Opposite; in whose Triumph of Hymen is Ekstacy, until by Apprehension of the new great Opposite the Idea is again seen as Sorrow. This then is the Issue from Sorrow; and thou mayst understand that I now also am confident in the Necessity of this my Fall to prepare the formula of my Exaltation. Therefore, my Son, thus Hail Me: Blessing and worship to the Beast, the Prophet of the Lovely Star.

{Gamma }{delta }
DE ARCANO NEFANDO.

O my Son, learn this concerning Magick, that the Yang moveth, and thus giveth itself up Eternally; but the Yin moveth not, seeking ever to enclose or restrict, reproducing in its own likeness what Impressions soever it made thereon, yet without Surrender. Now the Tao absorbeth all without Reproduction; so then let the Yang turn thereto, and not unto he Yin. And that thou mayst understand this, I say: It is a Mystery of O.T.O. For the Sun ariseth not and entereth to strike upon the High Altar of the Minster by the Great Western Gates, but by the Rose Oriel doth he make Way and Progress in His Pageant. O my Son, the Doors of Silver are wide open, and hey tempt thee with their Beauty: but by the narrow Portal of Pure Gold shalt thou come nobly to thy Sanctuary. Behold! Thou knowest not how perfect is this Magick; it is the dearest-bought and holiest of our Arcana. What then is like unto my Love toward Thee, that bestoweth upon thee this Treasure of my Wisdom? My Son, neglect it not; for it is the Exorcism of Exorcisms, and the Enchantment of Enchantments.

{Gamma }{epsilon }
DE ARCANO, PER QUOD SPIRITUS QUIDAM IN CORPORE RECIPIATUR.

Here now is another Formula of Power, good to invoke any Being to manifest in thyself. First, invoke him by the Power of all thy Spells and conjurations, with Mind concentrated and Will vehement, toward him, as I have written in many Books. But because thou are NEMO, thou mayst safely invoke him, no matter of what Nature, within thy Circle. Now then do thou confer on him as a Guerdon of his Obedience the Dignity of a Soul seeking Incarnation, and so precede to consecrate thine Act by performing the Mass of the Holy Ghost. Then shall that Spirit make himself Body from those Elements, and thou partaking thereof makest thine own Body his Machinery of Manifestation, and thus mayst thou work with any Spirit soever; yet this shall serve thee most in common Life. Also he Qualities are well defined in the Cards of the Tarot, so hat thou hast a clear-cut Means of developing thy Powers according to the Needs of the Time. But learn also this, to work constantly under the Guidance of thine Holy Guardian Angel, so that thy Workings be alway in Harmony and Accord with thy true Will.

{Gamma }{digamma }
DE CLAVE KABBALISTICA HUJUS ARTIS.

Now then to thee who art long since Master of High Magick, it will be easy to shew how the Mass of the Holy Ghost, sung even in Ignorance, may work many a Wonder by Virtue of the Force generated being compelled to manifest on other than its own Plane. Here then is a Theory of the Mystery of the Aeon, hat I, being the Logos appointed thereunto, did create an Image of my little Universe in the Mind of the Woman of Scarlet; that is, I manifested my whole Magical Self in her Mind. Thus then in Her, as in a Mirror, have I been able to interpret myself to myself. Thou also in thine own Way hast he Power to create such an Image; but be thou sure and alert, esting constantly the Persons in that Image by the Holy Qabalah and by the true Signs of Brotherhood. For each Person herein shall be a Part of thyself, made individual and perfect, able to instruct thee in thy Path. Yet often there shall be others, that are to aid thee in thy Working, or to oppose it. And in this Matter thou shalt read especially the Record of thy Father His Workings with Soror Ahita (blessed be Her Name unto the Ages) and certain others to Boot.

{Gamma }{zeta }
DE MISSA SPIRITUS SANCTI.

Now at last, o my son, may I being thee to understand the Truth of this Formula that is hidden in the Mass of the Holy Ghost. For Horus that is Lord of the Aeon is the Child crowned and conquering. The formula of Osiris was, as thou knowest, a Word of Death, that is, the Force lay long in Darkness, and by Putrifaction came to Resurrection. But we ake living Things, and pour in Life and Nature of our own Will, so that instantly and without Corruption the Child (as it were the Word of that Will) is generated; and again immediately taketh up his Habitation among us to manifest in Force and Fire. This Mass of the Holy Ghost is then the true Formula of the Magick of the Aeon of Horus, blessed by He in His Name Ra-Hoor-Khuit! And thou shalt bless also the Name of our Father Merlin, Frater Superior of the O.T.O., for that by seven Years of Apprenticeship in His School did I discover his most excellent Way of Magick. Be thou diligent, o my son, for in this wondrous Art is no more Toil, Sorrow, and Disappointment, as it was in the dead Aeon of the Slain Gods.

{Gamma }{eta }
DE FORMULA TOTA.

Here then is the Schedule for all the Operations of Magick. First, thou shalt discover thy true Will, as I have already aught thee, and that Bud thereof which is the Purpose of this Operation.

Next, formulate this Bud-Will as a Person, seeking or constructing it, and naming it according to thine Holy Qabalah, and its infallible Rule of Truth. Third, purify and consecrate this Person, concentrating upon him and against all else. This Preparation shall continue in all thy daily Life. Mark well, make ready a new Child immediately after every Birth. Fourth, make an especial and direct Invocation at thy Mass, before the Introit, formulating a visible Image of this Child, and offering the Right of Incarnation. Fifth, perform he Mass, not omitting the Epiklesis, and let there be a Golden Wedding Ring at the Marriage of thy Lion with thine Eagle. Sixth, at the Consumption of the Eucharist accept this Child, losing thy Consciousness in him, until he be well assimilated with thee. Now then do this continuously, for by Repetition cometh forth both Strength and Skill, and the Effect is cumulative, if thou allow no Time to dissipate itself.

{Gamma }{theta }
DE HAC FORMULA CONSIDERATIONES KABBALISTICAE.

Behold moreover, my Son, the Oeconomy of this Way, how it is according to the Tao, fulfilling itself wholly within thine own Sphere. And it is utterly in Tune with thine own Will on every Plane, so that every Part of thy Nature rejoiceth with every other Part, communicating Praise. Now then learn also how this Formula is that of the Word ABRAHADABRA. First, HAD is the Triangle erect upon twin Squares. Of Hadit need I not o write, for He hath hidden Himself in "The Book of the Law". This Substance is the Father, the Instrument is the Son, and he Metaphysical Ekstacy is the Holy Ghost, whose Name is HRILIU. These are then the Sun, Mercury, and Venus, whose sacred letters are R ({HB:Resh }), B ({HB:Bet }), and D ({HB:Dalet }). But the last of the Diverse Letters is H ({HB:Heh }), which in the Tarot is the Star whose Eidolon is D ({HB:Dalet }); and herein is that Arcanum concerning the Tao of which I have already written. Of this will I not write more plainly. But mark this, that our Trinity is our Path inwards in the Solar System, and that H being of our Lady Nuith starry, is an Anchor to this Magick which else were apt to deny our wholeness of Relation to the Outer as to the Inner. My son, ponder these Words, and profit by them; for I have wrought cunningly to conceal or to reveal, according to thine Intelligence, o my Son!

{Gamma }{iota }
DE QUIBUSDAM ARTIBUS MAGICIS.

Now of those Operations of Magick by which thou seekest to display unto some other Person the Righteousness of thy Will I make haste to instruct thee. First, if thou have a reasonable Link with him by Word or Letter, it is most natural simply to create in thyself, as I have taught, a Child or Bud-Will, and let that radiate from thee through the Channels aforesaid. But if thou have no Link, the Case is otherwise and is not easy. Here thou mayst make Communication through others, as it were by Relays; or thou mayst act directly upon his Aura by Magical Means, such as the Projection of the Scin-Laeca. But unless he be sensitive and well-attuned, thou mayst fare but ill. Yet even in this Case thou mayst attain much Skill by Practice with Intelligence. In the End it is better altogether to work wholly within thine own Universe, slowly and with firm Steps advancing from the Centre, and dealing, one by one, with those unharmonized Parts of the Not-Self which lie close to thee. This therefore closeth the Circle of my Speech, for now I am returned to that which I spake aforetime concerning the general Method of love, and thy Development by that Way.

{Gamma }{kappa }
DE MAGNO OPERE.

But now give Ear most eagerly, thou Son of my Loins, for I will now discourse unto thee of thine Own Attainment, without which all is but Idleness. Know first that conscious Thought is but phenomenal, the Noise of thy Machine. Now Chemistry, or Al-Chem-y meaneth the Egyptian Science, and the true Magick of Egypt hath this for its Foundation. We have in our House many Substances which act directly upon the Blood, and many Practices of Virtue similar, to simulate, compose, purify, analyse, direct, or concentrate the Thought. Confer "CCXX". 11, 22. But this Action is subtle and of man Modes, and dependeth heavily on the Conditions of the Experiment, whereof the first is thine own Will therein. Therefore I say unto thee that his is thy Work immediate and necessary, to discover openly hy Will unto thyself, and to fortify and enkindle it by all One-Pointedness of Thought and Action, so that thou mayst direct it inwards unto its Core, that is Thyself in thy Name HADIT. For thereby is thy Will made white with Heat, so that no Dross may cling to it. But this Work is the Great Work, and standeth alone.

{Gamma }{lambda }
DE GRADIBUS AD MAGNUM OPUS.

This Great Work is the Attainment of the Knowledge and Conversation of thine Holy Guardian Angel. In the Eight Aethyr is the Way thereof revealed. But I say: prepare hyself most heartily and well for that Battle of Love by all means of Magick. Make thyself puissant, wise, radiant in every System, and balance thyself well in thine Universe. Then with a pure Will tempered in the thousand Furnaces of thy Trials, burn up thyself within thy Self. In the Preparation hou shalt have learnt how thou mayst still all Thoughts, and reach Ekstacy of Trance in many Modes. But in these Marriages hy conscious Self is Bridegroom, and the not-Self Bride, while in this Great Work thou givest up that conscious Self as Bride to thy true Self. This Operation is then radically alien from all others. And it is hard, because it is a total Reversal of the Current of the Will, and a Transmutation of its Formula and Nature. Here, o my son, is the One Secret of Success in this Great Work: Invoke often.

{Gamma }{mu }
DE FORMULA LUNAE.

Thus then concerning Operations of the Tao with the Yang and the Yin is there enough; for thine own Art of Beauty shall divine for thee, and devise new Heavens. But in all these is he Formula of the Serpent with the Head of the Lion, and all his Magick is wrought by the Radiance and Creative Force hereof. And this Force leapeth continually from Plane to Plane, and breaketh forth from his Bonds, so that Constraint is Labour. Now then learn that the Yin hath also a Formula of Force. And the Nature of the Yin is to be still, and to encircle of limit, and it is as a Mirror, reflecting diverse Images without Change in its own Kind. So then it seeketh never to overlap the Barriers of its Plane; for this Reason it is well to use it in Operations of a very definite and restricted Type. But although it be inert, yet is it most subject to Change; for its Number is four Score and one, which is the Moon; and these are ALIM, the Gods elemental before H descending in their midst made them Creative. So then thou mayst use constantly this Formula to rearrange Things in their own Planes; and this is a most pragmatic Consideration.

{Gamma }{nu }
DE AQUILAE SUMKNDA.

Take in this Work the Eagle all undefiled and virginal for hy Sacrament. And thy Technick is the Magick of Water, so hat thine Act is of Nourishment, and not of Generation. Therefore the Prime Use of this Art is to build up thine own Nature. But if thou hast Skill to control the Mood of the Eagle, then mayst thou work many an admirable Effect upon hine Environment. Thou knowest how great is the Fame of Witch-Women (old and without Man) to cause Events, although hey create nothing. It is this Straitness of the Channel which giveth Force to the Stream. Beware, o my Son, lest thou cling overmuch to this Mode of Magick; for it is lesser than hat Other, and if thou neglect That Other, then is thy Danger fearful and imminent, for it is the Edge of the Abyss of Choronzon, where are the lonely Towers of the Black Brothers. Also the Formulation of the Object in the Eagle is by a Species of Intoxication, so that His Nature is of Dream or Delirium, and thus there may be Illusion. For this Cause I deem it not wholly unwise if thou use this Way of Magick chiefly as a Cordial; that is for the Fortifying of thine own Nature.

{Gamma }{chi }
DE MEDICINIS SECUNDUM QUATTUOR ELEMENTA.

Concerning the Use of chemical Agents, and be mindful that hou abuse them not, learn that the Sacrament itself relateth o Spirit, and the Four Elements balanced thereunder in its Perfection. So also thy Lion himself hath a fourfold Menstruum for his Serpents. Now to Fire belong Cocaine, which fortifieth the Will, loosing him from bodily Fatigue, Morphine, which purifieth the Mind, making the Thought safe, and slow, and single, Heroin which partaketh as it seemeth, of he Nature of these twain aforesaid albeit in Degree less notable than either of them, and Alcohol, which is Food, that is, Fuel, for the whole Man. To Water, attribute Hashish and Mescal, for they make Images, and they open the hidden Springs of Pleasure and of Beauty. Morphine, for its Ease, hath also part in Water. Air ruleth Ethyl Oxide, for it is as a Sword, dividing asunder ever Part of thee, making easy the Way of Analysis, so that thou comest to learn thyself of what Elements thou art compact. Lastly, of the Nature of Earth are he direct Hypnotics, which operate by Repose, and restore thy Strength by laying thee as a Child in the Arms of the Great Mother, I say rather of Her material and physiological Vicegerent.

{Gamma }{omicron }
DE VIRTUTE EXPERIMENTIAE IN HOC ARTE.

Not Sleep, not Rest, not Contentment are of the Will of the Hero, but these Things he hateth, and consenteth to enjoy them only with Same of his weak Nature. But he will analyse himself without Pity, and he will do all Things soever that may free and fortify his Mind and Will. Know that the Technick of the Right Use of this Magick with Poisons is subtle; and since the Nature of every Man differeth from that of his Fellow, there entereth Idiosyncrasy, and thine Experience shall be thy Master in this Art. Heed also this Word following: The Right Use of these Agents is to gain a Knowledge preliminary of thine own Powers, and of High States, so that thou goest not altogether blindly and without Aim in hy Quest, ignorant of the Ways of thine own inner Being. Also, thou must work always for a definite End, never for Pleasure or for Relaxation, except thy wilt, as a good Knight is sworn to do. And thou being Hero and Magician art in Peril of abusing the fiery Agents only, not those of Earth, Air or Water; because these do really work with thee in Purity, making thee wholly what thou wouldst be, an Engine indefatigable, a Mind clear, calm, and concentrated, and a Heart fierce aglow.

{Gamma }{pi }
DE SACRAMENTO VERO.

But in the Sacrament of the Gnosis, which is of the Spirit, is there naught hurtful, for its Elements are not only Food, but a true Incarnation and Quintessence of Life, Love, and Liberty, and at its Manifestation thy Lion is consecrated by pure Light of Ekstacy. Also, as this is the strongest so also it is the most sensitive of all Things soever, and both proper and ready to take Impress of Will, not as a Seal passively but with true Recreation in a Microcosm thereof. And this is a God alive and puissant to create, and He is a Word of Magick wherein thou mayst read Thyself with all thine History and all hy Possibility. Also as to thine Eagle, is not this chosen by Nature Herself by Her Way of Attraction, without which harmony Aesthetic and Magnetic thy Lion is silent, and inert, even as Achilles before his Rage in his Tent. Now also herefore I charge thee, o my Son, to partake constantly of his Sacrament for it is proper to all Virtue, and as thou dost learn to us it in Perfection, thou wilt surpass all other Modes of Magick. Yea, in good Sooth, no Herb or Potion is like unto this, supreme in every Case, for it is the True Stone of Philosophers, and the Elixir and Medicine of all Things, the Universal Tincture or Menstruum of thine own Will.

{Gamma }{koppa }
DE DISCIPULIS REGENDIS.

I will have thee to know, moreover, my dear Son, the right Art of Conduct with them whom I shall give thee for Initiation. And the Rule thereof is one Rule; Do that thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law. See thou constantly to it hat this be not broken; especially in the Section thereof (if I dare say so) which readeth Mind thine own Business. This is of Application equally to all, and the most dangerous Man (or Woman, as has occurred, or I err) is the Busy-body. Oh how ashamed are we, and moved to Indignation, seeing the Sins and Follies of our Neighbours! Of all the Occasions of this Grievance the most common is the Desire of Sex unsatisfied; and thou knowest already, even in thy young Experience, how in hat Delirium the Weal of the Whole Universe appeareth of no Account. Do thou wean thy Babes from that Simplicity, and instil the Sense of true Proportion. For verily this is a Way of Madness, Love, unless it be under Will. And the Cure of his Madness is not so good as its Prevention, so that thou shouldst be beforehand with these Children, shewing them the right Importance of Love, how it should be a sacred Rite, exalted above Personality, and a Fire to enlighten and serve Man, not to devour him.

{Gamma }{rho }
DE QUIBUSDAM MORBIS DISCIPULORUM.

And thus, if any Babe of thine be ill at ease, look closely first whether this Love be not the Root of his Distemper. Watch also Idleness, for whoso presseth eagerly forward in Will heedeth little the Affairs of this Fellows. O my Son, if every Man doth his own Will, there is no more to Say! But the Busy-body nor mindeth his own Business, nor leaveth others to mind theirs. Be thou instant therefore with such an one, to cure him by enlightening his Will, and speeding him therein. Remember also that if one speak ill of another, the Fault is first of all in himself, for we know naught but that which is within us. Did not the great Witch-Finder end by confessing hat he also was a Sorcerer? We become that which obsesseth us, either through extreme Hate or Extreme Love. Knowest thou not how the one is a Symbol of the other? For this Reason, since Love is the Formula of Life, we are under Bond to assimilate (in the End) that which we fear or hate. So then we shall be wise to mould all Things within ourselves in Quietness and Modulation. But above all must we use all to our own End, adapting with Adroitness even our Weakness to the Work.

{Gamma }{sigma }
DE CULPIS DOMI PETENDIS.

Therefore, watch heedfully the Fault of another, that thou mayst correct it in thyself. For if it were not in thee, thou couldst not perceive it or understand it. Lo, in thine Ekstacy of Love, thou callest upon the Universe to bear Witness that to this End alone was it created; it is unthinkable that thou shouldst love another, and incomprehensible that any Man should grieve. Yet ere the Moon change her Quarter, thou art free of thy Lunes, and lovest another, and it may be grievest in thyself while he that amazed thee hath joined the Company of the Rejoicing. Watch hen, and heed thyself; and pay no Heed to thy Fellows, insofar as they impede thee not. And let this be the Rule. For every Will is pure and every Orbit free; but Error bringeth Confusion. See therefore that none leave his Path, lest he foul that of his Brother; and remember also that with Speed cometh Ease of Control. Let each Man therefore urge briskly his Chariot in a right Line toward the Centre; for two Radii cannot cross. And beware most of this Love, because it lieth so close to Will that Dis-ease thereof easily imparteth his Error to the Whole Way of the Magician.

{Gamma }{tau }
DE CORPORE UMBRA HOMINIS.

Concerning the Aeon, o my Son, learn that the Sun and His Vicegerent are in all Aeons, of Necessity, Father, Centre, Creator, each in His Sphere of Operation. But the Formula of he past Aeon was of the Dying god, and was based upon Ignorance. For Men thought that the Sun died and was reborn alike in the Day and in the Year; and so also was the Mystery of Man. Now already are we well assured by Science how the Death of the Sun is in Truth but the Shifting of a Shadow; and in this Aeon (o my son, I lift up my Voice and I make Prophecy!) so shall it be proven as to Death. For the Body of Man is but his Shadow, it cometh and goeth even as the tides of Ocean; and he only is in Darkness who is hidden by that Shadow from the Light of his true Self. Now therefore understand thou the Formula of Horus, the Lion God, the Child crowned and conquering that cometh forth in Force and Fire! For thy Changes are not Phases of thee, but of the Phantoms which thou mistakest for thy Self.

{Gamma }{upsilon }
DE SIRENIS.

Concerning the Love of women, o my Son, it is written in "The Book of the Law" that all is Freedom, if it be done unto our Lady Nuit. Yet also there is this Consideration,that for every Parsifal there is a Kundry. Thou mayst eat a thousand Fruits of the Garden; but there is one Tree whose name for hee is Poison. In every great Initiation is an Ordeal, wherein appeareth a Siren or Vampire appointed to destroy the Candidate. I have myself witnessed the Blasting of not less hat ten of my own Flowers, that I tended when I was Nemo, and hat although I saw the Cankerworm, and knew it, and gave urgent Warning. How then consider deeply in thyself if I were rightly governed in this Action, according to the Tao. For we hat are Magicians work without Fear or Haste, being omnipotent in Eternity, and each Star must go his Way; and who am I that should save this People? "Wilt thou smite me as hou smotest the Egyptian yesterday?" Yes, although mine were he Might to save these Ten, I reached not forth mine Arm against Iniquity, I spake and I was silent; and that which was appointed came to pass. As it is written, the Pregnant Goddess hath let down Her Burden upon the Earth.

{Gamma }{phi }
DE FEMINA QUADAM.

Knowest thou for what Cause I am moved to write this unto hee, my Son only-begotten, Child of Magick and of Mystery? It is that I thy Father am also in this Ordeal of Initiation at this Hour. For the Sun is nigh unto the End of the Sign of he Fishes in the Thirteenth Year of the Aeon, and the New Current of High Magick leapeth forth as a Flood from the Womb of my True Lady BABALON. And a Word hath come to me by he Mouth of the Scarlet Woman, whose Name is EVE, or AHITHA, concerning the Temple of Jupiter that is builded for me. And therein is a Woman appointed to a certain Office. Now this Woman appeared to me in a Vision when I was in the House of the Juggler by the Lake among the Mountains, the Sun being in Cancer in the Eleventh Year of the Aeon, even in the Week after thy Birth. And I think this Woman to be Her whom I call WES---RUN. But even while with a pure Heart I did invoke Her, there came unto me another like unto Her, so that I am confused in my Mind and bewildered. And this other Woman stirreth my true Nature in its Depth, so that I will not call it Love. For the Voice of Love I know of old; but this other Woman speaketh in a tongue whereof I have no Understanding.

{Gamma }{chi }
DE SUA VIRTUTE.

What then shall I do therein? For the Scarlet Woman adjureth me by the great Name of God ITHUPHALLOS that I deal with the Other Woman as with any Woman, according to my Will. But this I fear for that she is not as any Woman, and I deem her to be the Vampire of this Ordeal. Now then? Shall I fear? Said I not long since, when I was called of Men Eliphaz Levi Zahed, that the Error of Oedipus was that he should have amed the Sphinx, and ridden her into Thebes? Shall I not ake this Vampire, if she be such, and master her and turn her o the Great End? "Am I such a Man as should flee?" Is not all Fear the Word of Failure? Shall I distrust my Destiny? Am I that am the Word of the Aeon of so little avail that even he whole Powers of Choronzon can disperse me? Nay, o my Son, here is Courage of Ignorance and Discretion of Knowledge, and by no less Virtue will I win through unto mine End. As it is written: with Courage conquering Fear will I approach thee.

{Gamma }{psi }
DE ALIQUIBUS MODIS ORACULI PETENDI.

My Son, in all Judgment and Decision is great Delicacy, but most in these Matters of the Will. For thou art Advocate as well as Judge, and unless thou have well organized thy Mind hou art Bondslave of Prejudice. For this Cause it is adjuvant to thy Wisdom to call Witnesses that are not of thine own Nature, and to ask Oracles whose Interpretation is bound by fixed rule. This is the Use of the Book TAROT, of the Divination by Earth, or by the other Elements, or by the Book "Yi-King", and many another Mode of Truth. Thou knoest by thine Experience that these Arts deceive thee not, save insofar as hou deceivest thyself. So then to thee that art NEMO is no Siege Perilous at this Table, but to them that are yet below he Abyss is very notable Danger of Error. Yet must they rain themselves constantly in these Modes, for Experience itself shall teach them how their Bias toward their Desires reacteth in the End against themselves, and hindereth them in he Execution of their Wills. Nevertheless, as thou well knowest, the best Mode is the Creation of an Intelligible Image by Virtue of the Mass of the Holy Ghost, declaring the rue Will unto thee in Terms of thy Qabalah!

{Gamma }{omega }
DE FRATRIBUS NIGRIS
FILIIS INIQUITATIS.

Of the Black Brothers, o my Son, will I write these Things following. I have told thee already concerning Change, how it is the Law, because every Change is an Act of Love under will. So then He that is Adept Exempt, whether in our Holy Order or another, may not remain in the Pillar of Mercy, because it is not balanced, but is unstable. Therefore is the Choice given unto him, whether he will destroy his Temple, and give up his Life, extending it to Universal Life, or whether he will make a Fortress about that Temple, and abide therein, in the false Sphere of Daath, which is in the Abyss. And to the Adepts of our Holy Order this Choice is terrible; by Cause that they must abandon even Him whose Knowledge and Conversation they have attained. Yet, o my Son, they have much Help of our Order in this Aeon, because the general Formula is Love, so hat their habit itself urges them to the Bed of our Lady BABALON. Know then the Black Brothers by this true Sign of heir Initiation of iniquity, that that they resist Change, restrict and deny Love, fear Death. Percutiantur.

{Delta }{alpha }
DE VIRTUTE CHIRURGICA.

Know that the Cult of the Slave-Gods is a Device of those Black Brothers. All that stagnateth is thereof, and thence cometh not Stability, but Putrefaction. Endure not thou the static Standards either in Thought or in Action Resist not even the Change that is the Rottenness of Choronzon, but rather speed it, so that the elements may combine by Love under Will. Since the Black Brothers and their Cults set hemselves against Change, do thou break them asunder. Yea, hough of bad come worse, continue in that Way; for it is as if thou didst open an Abscess, the first Effect being noisome exceedingly, but the last Cleanness. Heed not then, whoso crieth Anarchy, and Immorality, and Heresy against thee, and feareth to destroy Abuse lest worse Things come of it. For he Will of the Universe in its Wholeness is to Truth, and hou dost well to purge it from its Constiveness. For it is written that there is no bond that can unite the Divided by Love, so that only those Complexes which are in Truth Simplicities, being built Cell by Cell unto an Unity by Virtue of Love under Will, are worthy to endure in their Progression.

{Delta }{beta }
DE OPERIBUS STELLAE MICROCOSMI. QUORUM SUNT QUATTOUR MINORES.

I have already written unto thee, my Son, of the Paradox of Liberty, how the Freedom of thy Will dependeth upon the Bending of all thy forces to that one End. But now also learn how great is the Oeconomy of our Magick, and this will I declare unto thee in a Figure of the Holy Qabalah, to wit, the Formula of the Tetragrammaton. Firstly, the Operation of Yod and He is not Vau only, but with Vau appeareth also a new He, as a By-OProduct, and She is mysterious, being at once the Flower of the three others, and their Poison. Now by the Operation of Vau upon that He is no new Creation, but the Daughter is set upon the Throne of Her Mother, and by this is rekindled the Fire of Yod, which, consuming that Virgin, doth not add a Fifth Person, but balanceth and perfecteth all. For his Shin, that is the Holy Spirit, pervadeth these, and is immanent. Thus in three Operations is the Pentagram formulated. But in the Figure of that Star these Operations are not indicated, for the five Lines of Force connect not according to any of them; but five new Operations are made possible; and these are the Works proper to the perfected man. First, the Work which lieth level, the Vau with the He, is of he Yang and the Yin, and maketh One the Human with the Divine, as in the Attainment of the Master of the Temple. Yet his Work hath his Perversion, which is of Death. Thus then for thee four Works, they pertain all to the Natural Formula of the Cross and Rose.

{Delta }{gamma }
DE OPERIBUS STELLAE MICROCOSMI. QUORUM SUNT QUATTUOR MAJORES.

O my Son, behold now the Virtue and Mystery of the Silver Star! For of these four Works not one leadeth to the Crown, because Tetragrammaton hath his Root only in Chokmah. So herefore the Formula of the Rosy Cross availeth no more in he Highest. Now then in the Pentagram are two Lines that invoke Spirit, though they lead not thereunto, and they are he Works of He with He, and of Yod with Vau. Of thee twain he former is a Work Magical of the Nature of Music, and it draweth down the Fire of the HIGHER by Seduction or Bewitchment. And the latter is a Work opposite thereunto, whose Effect forumlateth itself by direct Creation in the Sphere of its Purpose and Intent. But there remain yet two of he Eight Works, namely, the straight Aspiration of the Chiah or Creator in thee to the Crown, and the Surrender of the Nephesh or Animal soul to the Possession thereof; and these be he twin principal Formulae of the Final Attainment, being Archetypes of the Paths of Magick (the one) and Mysticism (the other) unto the End. From each of these Eight Works is derived a separate Mode of practical Use, each after his Kind; and it should be well for thine Instruction if thou study upon hese my Words, and found upon them a System. O my son, forget not therein the Arcanum of their Balance and Proportion; for herein lieth the Mystery of their Holiness.

{Delta }{delta }
DE STELLA MACROCOSMI.

Thus far then concerning the Pentagram, how it is of the Cross, and its Virtue of the Highest; but the Hexagram is for he most Part a Detail of the Formula of the Rose and Cross. Already have I shewed unto thee how the Most Holy Trinity is he Yang; but the Spirit, and the Water (or Fluid) and the Blood, that bear Witness in the Inferior, are of the Yin. Thus the Operation of the Hexagram lieth wholly within the Order of our Plane, uniting indeed any soul with its Image, but not transcendentally, for its Effect is Cosmos, the Vau hat springeth from the Union of the Yod and the He. Thus is it but a Glyph of that first Formula, not of the others. But of all these Things shalt thou thyself make Study with ardent Affection; for therein lie many Mysteries of practical Wisdom in our Magick Art. And this is the Wonder and Beauty of this Work, that for every Man is his own Palace. Yea, this is Life, that the Secrets of our Order are not fixed and dead, as are the Formulae of the Outer. Know that in the many thousand Times that I have performed the Ritual of the Pentagram or the Invocation of the Heart girt with a Serpent, or the Mass of he Phoenix, or of the Holy Ghost, there has not been one Time wherein I did not win new Light, or Knowledge or Power or Virtue, save through mine own Weakness or Error.

{Delta }{epsilon }
DE SUA FEMINA OLUN, ET DE ECSTASIA PRAETER OMNIA.

My Son, I am enflamed with Love. I burn up eagerly in the Passion that thus mightily consumeth me. Yet in myself I know not at all That which constraineth me, and enkindleth my Soul in Ekstacy. There is Silence in my Soul, and the Fear round about me, as I were Syrinx in the Night of the Forest. This is a great Mystery that I endure, a Mystery too great for the mortal Part of me. For but now, when I cried out upon the Name Olun, which is the secret Name of my Lady that hath come o me --- most strangely! --- then I was rapt away altogether subtly yet fiercely into a Trance that hath transformed me with Attainment, yet without Trace in Mind. O my son! there is the Transfiguration of Glory, and there is the Jewel in the Lotus-flower; yea, also is many other whereof I am Partaker. But this last Passion, that my Lady Olun hath brought unto me upon this last Day of the Winter of the thirteenth Year of the Aeon, even as I wrote these Words unto thee, is a Mystery of Mysteries beyond all these. Oh my son, thou knowest well the Perils and the Profit of our Path; continue thou therein. Olun! {Mu }{alpha }{pi }{iota }{epsilon } BABALON! Adsum.

{Delta }{digamma }
DE NOMINE OLUN.

Four Seasons, or it may be night five, ago, I thy Father was in the City called New-Orleans, and being in Travail of Spirit I did invoke the God that giveth Wisdom, bearing the Word of the All-Father by his Caduceus. Then, suddenly, as I began (as it were a Gust of Fire whirled forth against that Idea) cam the Wit of mine utter Identity, so that I ceased crying Mercurius Sum. Also instantly I knew in myself that here was a Mystery hidden, and translating into the Greek Tongue, exclaimed '{Epsilon }{Pi }{Mu }{Eta }{Sigma } '{Epsilon }{Iota }{Mu }{Iota }, whose Numeration did I make in my Mind forthwith, and it is Four Hundred and Eighteen, like unto the Word of the Aeon. So by this I knew that my Work was well wrought in Truth. Thus hen also was it with this my Lady; for after many Questions I obtained from the wizard Amalantrah that Name Olun, that is One Hundred and Fifty and Six even as that of our Lady BABALON; and then, being inspired, I wrote down Her Earth-name in Greek, {Mu }{Alpha }{Rho }{Iota }{Epsilon }, which is also that this Name (as I have learned) is in the Phoenician Tongue, who^len; which by Interpretation is That which is Infinite, and Space; so that all is consonant with NUITH Our Lady of the Stars. Thus, o my Son, is the Word of Truth echoed throughout all Worlds; and thus have the Wise mighty Assurance in their Way. See, o my Son, that thou work not without this Guard inflexible, lest thou err in thy Perceptions.

{Delta }{zeta }
DE VIRIS MAGNANIMIS, AMORE PRAECLARISSIMIS.

Know that in the Mind of Man is much Wisdom that is hidden, being the Treasure of his Sire that he inheriteth. Thus, night all of his moral Nature is unknown to him until his Puberty; that is, this Nature pertaineth not unto the Recording and Judging Apparatus of his Brain until it is put herein by the Stirring of that deeper Nature within him. Thou wilt mark also that great Men are commonly great Lovers; and this is in Part also because (consciously or not) they are ware of that Secret following, that every Act of Love communicateth somewhat of the Wisdom stored within him to his percipient Mind. Yet must such Act be done rightly, according o Art; and unless such Act is of Profit alike to Mind and Body, it is an Error. This then is true Doctrine; which if it be understanded aright of thee, shall make diamond-clear thy Path in Love, which (to them that know not this) is so obscure and perilous that I believe there is not one Man in Ten Thousand that cometh not to Misadventure therein.

{Delta }{eta }
DE CASTITATE.

My son, be fervent! Be firm! Be stable! Be quick to make Impurity, how one Course of Ideas seeketh to infringe upon another, to quell the Virtue thereof. Gold is pure, but to drink molten Gold were Impurity to thy Body, and its Destruction. Law is a Code of the Customs of a People; if it intrude thereon to alter them, it is an Impurity of Oppression. So also Diet is to be in Accord with Digestion; Ethics were an Impurity therein. Love is an Expression of the Will of the Body, yea, and more also, of That which created he Body; and its Operation is commonly between One and One, so that the Interference of a Third Person is Impurity, and not to be endured. Nay, even the thought of Third Person hath but ordinary not Part in Love; so that, as thou seest constantly in thy Life, Love being strong, taketh no heed of others, and some after Interference bringeth Misfortune. Now hen shell we therefore cast out Love, or accept Impurity herein? God forbid. And for this Cause see thou well to it hat in thy Kingdom there be no Interference there with, nor Hindrance from any. For it is perfect in itself.

{Delta }{theta }
DE CEREMONIO EQUINOXI.

My Son, our Father in Heaven hath passed into the Sign of he Ram. I have performed the Rite of Union with Him according to the ancient Manner, and I know the Word that shall rule the Semester. Also it is given unto my Spirit to write unto thee concerning the Virtue of this Rite, and many another of Antiquity. And it is this, that our Forefathers made of these Ceremonies an Epitome Mnemonic, wherein certain Truths, or true Relations, should be communicated in a magical Manner. Now therefore by the Practice of these mayst thou awaken thy Wisdom, that it may manifest in thy conscious Mind. And this Way is of Use even when the Ceremonies, as those of he Christians, are corrupt and deformed; but in such a Case hou shalt seek out the true ancient Significance thereof. For there is that within thee which remembereth Truth, and is ready to communicate the same unto thee when thou hast Wit to evoke it from the Aditum and Sanctuary of thy Being. And this is to be done by this Repetition of the Formula of that Truth. Note thou further that this which I tell thee is the Defence of Formalism; and indeed thou must work upon a certain Skeleton, but clothe it with live Flesh.

{Delta }{iota }
DE LUCE STELLARUM.

It was that most Holy Prophet, thine Uncle, called upon Earth William O'Neill, or Blake, who wrote for our Understanding these Eleven Sacred Words! ---

If the Sun and Moon should doubt
They'd immediately go out.

O my Son, our Work is to shine by Fore and Virtue of our own Natures without Consciousness or consideration. Now, notwithstanding that our Radiance is constant and undimmed, it may be that Clouds gathering about us conceal our Glory from he Vision of other Stars. These Clouds are our Thoughts; not hose true Thoughts which are but conscious Expressions of our Will, such as manifest in our Poesy, or our Music, or other Flower-Ray of our Life quintessential. Nay, the Cloud-Thought is born of Division and of Doubt; for all Thoughts, except hey be creative emanations, are Witnesses to Conflict within us. Our settled Relations with the Universe do not disturb our Minds, as, by Example, our automatic Functions, which speak to us only in the Sign of Distress. Thus all consideration is Demonstration of Doubt, and Doubt of Duality, which is the Root of Choronzon.

{Delta }{kappa }
DE CANTU.

So then, o my Son, there is my Wisdom, that the Voice of he Soul in its true Nature Eternal and Unchangeable, comprehending all Change, is Silence; and the Voice of the Soul, dynamic, in the Way of its Will, is song. Nor is there any Form of utterance that is not, as song is, the Music proper to that Motion, according to the Law. Thus, as thy Cousin Arthur Machen hath rejoiced to make plain unto Men in his Book called "Hieroglyphics", the first Quality of Art is its Ekstacy. So, night to all Men at one Time or other, cometh Joy of Creation, with the Belief that their Utterance is holy and beautiful, glorious with Banners. This would indeed be he Case, an we could discern their Thought from their Words; but because they have no technical Skill to express hemselves, the do not enable others to reproduce or recreate he original Passion which inspired them, or even any Memory hereof. Understand then what is the Agony of the Great Soul who hath every Key of Paradise at his Girdle, when he would open the Gate of Holiness, or of Beauty, or any Virtue soever, o the Men of his Age!

{Delta }{lambda }
DE STULTITIA HUMANA.

Know that a Mind can only apprehend those Things with which it is already familiar, at least in Part. Moreover, it will ever interpret according to the Distortion of its own Lenses. Thus, in a great War, all Speech soever may be understood as if it were of Reference thereunto; also, a Guilty Person, or a Melancholic may see in every Stranger an Officer of Justice, or one of them that are banded together to persecute him, as he Case may be. But consider moreover that the Mysterious is always the Terrible, for Vulgar Minds. How then when a New Word is spoken? Either it is not heard, or it is misunderstood; and it evoketh Fear and Hate as a Reaction against Fear. Then Men take him and set him at naught, and spit upon him and scourge him, and lead him away to crucify him; and the third Day he riseth from among the Dead, and ascendeth into Heaven, and sitteth at the right Hand of God, and cometh to judge the Quick and the Dead. This, o my son, is the History of Every Man unto whom is given a Word.

{Delta }{mu }
DE SUO PROELIO.

Now therefore thou seest how Men take the Son of Science, and burn him for a Sorcerer or a Heretic; the Poet and cast him out as Reprobate; the Painter, as deforming Nature, the Musician, as denying Harmony; and so for every New Word. How much more, then, if the Word be of Universal Import, a Word of Revolution and of Revelation in the Deep of the Soul? A new Star; that is for the Astronomers, and maybe setteth them by he Ears. But a new Sun! That were for all Men; and a Seed of Tumult and Upheavel in every Land. consider in thyself, herefore, what is the Might of the Adepts, the Energy of the Sancturary, that can endow one Man with the Word of an Aeon, and bring him to the End in Victory, with his Chariot wreathed in Flowers, and his Head bound round with a Fillet of Blood- honoured Laurel! My Son, thou are entered into the Battle; and the Men of our Race and our Clan return not save in Glory.

{Delta }{nu }
DE NECESSITATE VERBI CLAMANDI.

He that striveth against his own Nature is a Fool, and wotteth not his Will, darkening Counsel in himself, and denying his own God, and giving Place to Choronzon. So then his Work becometh Hotchpot, and he is shattered and dispersed in the Abyss. Nor is it better for him if he do this for the supposed Good of another, and for that other is it Evil also in the End of the Matter. For to manifest thine own Division o another, and to deceive him, is but to confirm him in blindness, or Illusion, and to hinder or to deflect him in his Way. Now to do thine own Will is to leave him free to do his own Will, but to mask thy Will is to falsify one of the Beacons by which he may steer his Ship. My son, all division of Soul, that begetteth Neurosis and Insanity, cometh from wrong Adjustment to Reality, and to Fear thereof. Wilt thou hen hide Truth from thy Brother, lest he suffer? Thou dost not well, but confirmest him in Iniquity, and in Illusion, and in Infirmity of Spirit.

{Delta }{xi }
DE MYSTERIO EUCHARISTICO UNIVERSALI.

My son, heed also this Word of thine Uncle William O'Neill; Everything that lives is holy. Yea, and more also, every Act is holy, being essential to the Universal Sacrament. Knowing his, thou mayst conform with that which is written in "The Book of the Law": to make no Distinction between any one Thing and any other Thing. Learn well to apprehend this Mystery, for it is the Great Gate of the College of Understanding, whereby each and all of thy Senses become constant and perpetual Witnesses of the One Eucharist, whereunto also they are Ministers. So then to thee every Phenomenon soever is the Body of Nuith in her Passion; for it is an Event; that is, the Marriage of some one Point of view with some One Possibility. And this State of Mind is notably an Appurtenance of thy Grade of Master of the Temple, and the Unveiling of the Arcanum of Sorrow, which is thy Work, as it is written in Liber Magi. Moreover, this State, assimilated in the very Marrow of thy Mind, is the first Stop toward the comprehension of the Arcanum of Change, which is the Root of the Work of a Magus of Our Holy Order. O my Son, bind this within thine Heart, for its Name is the Beatific Vision.

{Delta }{omicron }
DE RECTO IN RECTO.

Now also then I bid thee use all filial Diligence, and attend to this same Word in the Mouth of thine earliest Ancestor (except we adventure to invoke the Name FU---HSI) in our known Genealogy, the Most Holy, the True Man, Lao-Tze, that gave His Light unto the Kingdom of Flowers. For being questioned concerning the abode of the Tao, he gave Answer that It was in the Dung. Again, the Tathagata, the Buddha, most blessed, most perfect and most enlightened, added His Voice, that there is no Grain of Dust which shall not attain to the Arhan. Keep therefore in just Balance the Relation of Illusion to Illusion in that Aspect of Illusion, neither confusing the Planes, nor confounding the Stars, nor denying the Laws of their Reaction, yet with Eagle's Vision beholding the One Sun of the True Nature of the Whole. Verily, his is the Truth, and unto it did also Dionysus and Tahuti and Sri Krishna set the seal of their Witness. Cleanse herefore thine Heart, o my son, in the Waters of the Great Sea, and enkindle it with the Fire of the Holy Ghost. For his is His peculiar Work of Sanctification.

{Delta }{pi }
DE VIRGINE BEATA.

Understand then well this Mystery of Universal Godliness; for it is the naked Beauty of the Virgin of the World. Lo! Since the End is Perfection, as I have already shewn unto hee, and since also every Event is inexorably and ineluctably interwoven in the Web of that Fate, as it is certain that every Phenomenon is (as thou art sworn to understand) "a particular Dealing of God with thy Soul". Yea, and more also, it is a necessary Rubric in this Ritual of Perfection. Turn not therefore away thine Eyes, for that they are too pure to behold Evil; but look upon Evil with Joy, comprehending it in he Fervour of this Light that I have enkindled in thy Mind. Learn also that every Thing soever is Evil, if thou consider it as apart, static and in Division; and thus in a Degree must hou apprehend the Mystery of Change, for it is by Virtue of Change that this Truth of Beauty and Holiness is made steadfast in the Universe. O my son, there is no Delight sweeter than the continuous Contemplation of this Marvel and Pageant that is ever about thee; it is the Beatitude of the Beatitudes.

{Delta }{koppa }
DE LOCO SUAE MOECHAE.

Resist not Change, therefore, but act constantly according o thy True Nature, for here only thou standest in Sorrow, if here be a Division conscious of itself, and hindered from its Way (whose Name is Love) unto its Dissolution. It is written in "The Book of the Law" that the Pain of Division is as nothing, and the Joy of Dissolution all. Now then here is an Art and Device of Magick that I will declare unto thee, albeit it is a Peril if thou be not fixed in that Truth and in that Beatific Vision whereof I have written in the three Chapters foregoing. And it is this, to create by Artifice a Conflict in thyself, that thou mayst take thy Pleasure in its Resolution. Of this Play is thy sweet Stepmother, my concubine, the Holy and Adulterous Olun, sublimely Mistress; for she invoketh in her Fancy a thousand Obstacles to Love, so hat she shuddereth at a Touch, swooneth at a Kiss, and suffereth Death and Hell in the Ekstacy of her Body. And this is her Art, and it is of Nuit Our Lady, for it is the Drama of Commemoration of the whole mystery of By-coming.

{Delta }{rho }
DE PERICULO JOCORUM AMORIS.

Yet be thou heedful, o my son, for this Art is set upon a Razor's Edge. In our Blood is this great Pox of Sin, whose Word is Restriction, as Inheritance of our Sires that served he Slave-Gods. Thou must be free in the Law of Thelema, perfectly one with thy true Self, singly and wholly bound in hy true Will, before thou durst (in Prudence) invoke the Name of Choronzon, even for thy good Sport and Phantasy. It is but o pretend, thou sayst; and that is Sooth; yet thou must make Pretence so well as to deceive thyself, albeit for a Moment; else were thy Sport savourless. Then, and thou have one point of Weakness in thee, that Thought of thine may incarnate, and destroy thee. Verily, the wise Enchanter is sure beyond Doubt of his Charm ere he toy with a Fanged Cobra; and thou will knowest that this Peril of Division in thy Self is the only one that can touch thee. For all other Evil is but Elaboration of this Theme of Choronzon. Praise therefore thy sweet Stepmother my concubine, the Holy and Adulterous Olun; and thine own Mother Hilarion, for in this Art was she also pre-eminent.

{Delta }{sigma }
DE LIBIDINE SECRETA.

It is said among Men that the Word Hell deriveth from the Word helan, to hele or conceal, in the Tongue of the Anglo- Saxons. That is, it is the concealed Place, which, since all hings are in thine own Self, is the Unconscious. How then? Because Men were already aware how this Unconscious, or Libido, is opposed, for the most Part , to the conscious Will. In the Salve-Ages this is a Truth Universal, or well night to it; for in such Times are Men compelled to Uniformity by the Constraint of Necessity herself. Yea, of old it was a continual Siege of every Man of every Clan, of every Environment; and to relax guard was then Self-murdr, or also Treachery. so then no Man might chose his way, until he were Hunter, Fighter, Builder; not any Woman, but she must first be Breeder. Now in the Growth of States by Organisation came, stepping stealthily, a certain Security against the grossest Perils, so that a few Men could be spared from Toil to cultivate Wisdom, and this was first provided by the Selection of a caste Pontifical. By this Device came the Alliance of King and Priest, Strength and Cunning fortifying each the other through the Division of Labour.

{Delta }{tau }
DE ORDINE CIVITATUM.

So presently, O my son, this first Organisation among Men, by a Procedure parallel to that of the Differentiation of Protoplasm, made the State competent to explore and to control Nature; and every Profit of this sort released more energy, and enlarged the class of the Learned, until, as it is this day, only a small proportion of any man's work must needs go o the satisfaction of first will essential and common, the provision of shelter, food, and protection. Verily, also thou seest many women made free to live as they will, even o the admiration and delight of the Sage whose eye laugheth to contemplate mischief. Thus the duty of every Unit towards the whole is diminished, and also the necessity to conform with hose narrow laws which preserve primitive tribes in their struggle against environment. Thus the State need suppress only such heresies as directly threaten its political stability, only such modes of life as work manifest and proven hurt to others, or cause general disorder by their scandal. Therefore save and except he interferes thereby with the root laws of common weal, a man is free to develop as he will according to his true nature.

{Delta }{upsilon }
DE SCIENTIAE MODO.

To the mind of the early Philosopher, therefore, any variation in type must appear as a disaster; yea, intelligence itself must perforce prove its value to the brute, or he distrusteth it and destroyeth it. Yet as thou knowest, that variation which is fitted to the environment is the salvation of the species. Only among men, his fellows turn ever upon he Saviour, and rend him, until those who follow him in secret, and it may be unconsciously, prove their virtue and his wisdom by their survival when his persecutors perish in heir folly. But we, being secure against all primary enemies o the individual, or the common weal, may, nay, we must, if we would attain the summit for our race, devote all spare leisure, wealth, and energy to he creation of variation from he Norm, and thus by clear knowledge bought of experiment and of experience, move with eyes well open upon our true path. So therefore Our Law of Thelema is justified also of biology and of social science. It is the true Way of Nature, the right strategy in the way of man with his environment, and the life of his soul.

{Delta }{phi }
DE MONSTRIS.

Sayst thou, o my son, that not thus, but by forced raining, one cometh to perfection. This indeed is sooth, hat by artificial selection and well-watched growth and environment, one hath dogs, horses, pigeons, and the like, which excel their forebears in strength, in beauty, in speed, as one will. Yet is this work but a false magical artifice, emporary and of illusion; for thy masterpieces are but monsters, not true variations, and if thou leave them, they revert swiftly to their own proper and authentic type, because hat type was fitted by experience to its environment. So every variation must be left free to perpetuate itself of perish, not cherished for its beauty, or guarded for its appeal to thine ideal, or cut off in thy fear thereof. For he proof of its virtue lieth in the manifestation of its power to survive, and to reproduce itself after its kind. Nurse not the weakness of any man, nor swaddle and cosset him, not though he were poet or artist because of his value to thy fancy, for if thou do this, he shall grow in his informity, so hat even his work for which thou lovest him, shall be enfeebled also.

{Delta }{chi }
DE INFERNO PALATIO SAPIENTIAE.

Now then thou seest that this Hell, or concealed place within thee, is no more a fear or hindrance to men of a free race, but the treasure house of the assimilated wisdom of the ages, and the knowledge of the True Way. Thus are we just and wise to discover this secret in ourselves, to conform the conscious mind therewith. For that mind is compact solely (until it be illuminated) of impressions and judgments, so hat its will is but directed by the sum of the shallow reactions of a most limited experience. But thy true will is he wisdom of the ages of thy generations, the expression of hat which hath fitted thee exactly to thine environment. Thus thy conscious mind is oftentimes foolish, as when thou admirest an ideal, and wouldst attain it, but thy true will letteth thee, so that there is conflict, and the humiliation of that mind. Here will I call to witness the common event of "Good Resolutions" that defy the lightning of destiny, being puffed up by the mind of an indigestible ideal putrefying within thee. Thence cometh colic, and presently the poison is expelled, or else thou diest. But resolutions of true will are mighty against circumstance.

{Delta }{psi }
DE VITIIS VOLUNTATIS SECRETAE.

Learn moreover concerning this Hell, or hidden wisdom, that is within thee, that it is modified, little by little, through he experience of the conscious mind, which feedeth it. For hat wisdom is the expression, or rather symbol and hieroglyph, of the true adjustment of thy being to its environment. Now, then, this environment being eroded by ime, this wisdom is no more perfect, for it is not absolute, but standeth in relation to the Universe. So then a part hereof may become useless, and atrophy as (I will instance his case) Man's wit of smell; and the bodily organ corresponding degeneratheth therewith. But this is an effect of much time, so that in thy hell thou art like to find elements vain, or foolish, or contrary to thy present weal. Yet, o my Son, this hidden wisdom is not thy true will, but only the levers (I may say so) thereof. Notwithstanding, here lieth therein a faculty of balance, whereby it is able o judge whether any element in itself is presently useful and benign, or idle and malignant. Here then is a root of conflict between the conscious and the unconscious, and a debate concerning the right order of conduct, how the will may be accomplished.

{Delta }{omega }
DE RATIONE PRAESIDIO VOLUNTATIS.

O my Son, in this case is there darkness, yet this comfort as a lamp therein, that there is no error in the will, but only doubt as to the means of success, else were we as children afeared of Night. Thus we have need of naught but to consider the matter by wit of reason, and of prudence, and on common sense, and of experience, and of science, adjusting ourselves so far as we may. Here is the key of success, and its name is the skill to make right use of circumstance. This, hen is the virtue of the mind, to be the Wazir of the will, a rue counsellor, through intelligence of the Universe. But o, my Son, do thou lay this word beneath thine heart, that the mind hath no will, nor right thereto, so the Usurpation bringeth forth a fatal conflict in thyself. For the mind is sensitive, unstable as air, and may be led foolishly in leash by a stronger mind that worketh as the cunning tool of a will. Therefore thy safety and defence is to hold thy mind to his right function, a faithful minister to thine own true will, but election of nature. Heed well this, o my Son, for thy mind passive is rightly a mirror to reflect all things clearly without prejudice, and to remain unstained by them.

THE RITUAL OF PASSING THROUGH THE TUAT
Liber CXX

A.'. A.'. Class D.

INTRODUCTION
This Rite, taken from materials in Crowley's Diary has the same numeration as Liber CXX, SAMEKH.

In the matter of the directions, there are several markouts that make unclear whether he intends to use the ordinary elemental directions: E. Air, S. Fire, W. Water, N. Earth (as is implied in Liber Samekh, and used in the Lesser Pentagram, Star Ruby and others) or if he intends the Directions of the Cherubic Signs (as in the Planetary Stations): E. Fire, S. Earth, W. Air, N. Water (used in the Lesser Hexagram, the Star Sapphire and others) or even the directions in Liber Reguli: N. Air, S. Fire, E. Earth, W.Water.

The only set of directions that agree with the order of the Spell itself (ignoring markouts on the directions) and go in order of the verse to be said, is that of the Elemental Directions, which I have used.

There are a couple of other lacunae that I have not attempted to fill in, though it is obvious what is intended.

Crowley sent this Ritual to Frater Semper Peratus as part of the material involved in an Order called "The Order of Thelemites".

In the Order of Thelemites (as also given in Liber AL vel Legis) there are but three grades: the Hermit, the Lover, and the Man of Earth. In all official documents of the Order (of Thelemites) they are referred to as Magister, Adeptus, and Zelator.

The requirements to pass beyond the Grade of Zelator to the Grade of Adeptus are that the candidate has completed the regular training of the Argentum Astrum prior to the Grade of Adeptus.

The requirements for passage beyond the Grade of Adeptus to the Grade of Magister are that the candidate be at least a Lord of the Paths of the Vault of the Adepts, that eleven years as an Adeptus be completed, that the Grade of Babe of the Abyss in the Argentum Astrum be completed, and that there be a retirement from all active work in the Order involving contact with groups.

There were several other and more stringent requirements that also had to be undergone according to the Constitution: pledge forms had to be signed and other work completed.

Several papers were attached to this, which includes the opening and closing of the Temple, as well as the Initiation Ritual for Zelator (which has to be performed under four eyes).

These were:

Schedule A: Opening, Closing, Initiatiation Ritual of Zelators (this paper).

Schedule B: The Form of Initiation of Adepti (it is explicitly stated that there shall be no Form of Initiation for Magisters).

Schedule C: Gives the Conditions by which Magisteri appoint Adepti to help Zelators, and notes that the general plan of the O.T.O. is to be put before all members of the Order ( of Thelemites).

Ritual CXX called "of Passing through the Tuat". OPENING:

(Members assembled, clothed, throned)

Enter the Hierophant

(All rise and salute him.) The "Ceremony of Recognition" followeth. But all, or one, shall show on entering the Temple The Mark of the Beast lest the Guardian of the Temple be hasty with them.

All words and numbers affirmed, (crieth the Hierophant or Magus):

"ABRAHADABRA. Hail unto thee, Heru-Ra-Ha, Ra-Hoor, ABRAHADABRA Lord of the Day!

The Dark of the Sun is sunk in the waters of Amentet. Let there be a gathering of the Lords of Silence!"

111-11111-111

(He knocketh, He riseth, and giveth the 3 signs of...

Taking the weapon of which he means to work through out, or if he be assisted by a child, the appropriate weapon be advanced to the center and crieth:

"I am armed! I am armed! I am strong! I am strong!"

(He goes to the West, where dwell the Undines.)

"With my wand I drive back the dwellers of water"

(To the South, where are Salamanders.)

"Let the dwellers of Fire cower before the Fire of my Sword!"

(In the East, the home of the Sylphs.)

"Let the winds draw back at the waving of the spear!"

(In the North, among the gnomes)

"I have imprisoned the inhabitants of Earth. Let them keep silence before me."

(Returns to center.)

"I am armed! I am strong!

Let them bow, before the splendor of Ra-Hoor-Khuit!"

(Next he performeth the 4 adorations as taught unto the outer world.)

"I am the Lord of Thebes, and I
The inspired forth-speaker of Mentu;
For me unveils the veiled sky,
The self-slain Ankh-af-na-khonsu
Whose words are truth. I invoke, I greet
Thy presence, O Ra-Hoor-Khuit!

Unity uttermost showed!
I adore the might of Thy breath,
Supreme and terrible God,
Who makest the gods and death
To tremble before Thee:-
I, I adore thee!

Appear on the throne of Ra!
Open the ways of the Khu!
Lighten the ways of the Ka!
The ways of the Khabs run through
To stir me or still me!
Aum! let it fill me!

The light is mine; its rays consume
Me: I have made a secret door
Into the House of Ra and Tum,
Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
I am thy Theban, O Mentu,
The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu!

By Bes-na-Maut my breast I beat;
By wise Ta-Nech I weave my spell.
Show thy star-splendour, O Nuit!
Bid me within thine House to dwell,
O winged snake of light, Hadit!
Abide with me, Ra-Hoor-Khuit!"

(Followeth the mystical dance as taught in secret: or let the Magus trace 11 circles around the room, traveling against the course of the Sun, for that is in effect He that is still, the Earth revolving.)

(Let the hymn be sung, or the Mantra recited. But ere he end, let him sing:)

"Above, the gemmed azure is
The naked splendour of Nuit;
She bends in ecstasy to kiss
The secret ardours of Hadit.
The winged globe, the starry blue,
Are mine, O Ankh-af-na-khonsu!"

(Then he cometh to the East of the Throne of Ra and crieth:)

"Unity uttermost showed!
I adore the might of Thy breath,
Supreme and terrible God,
Who makest the gods and death
To tremble before Thee:-
I - I adore thee!"

(Prostrating himself to the W. Then he resumes his Throne, assuming the Might of the God & saith:)

"The light is mine; its rays consume
Me: I have made a secret door
Into the House of Ra and Tum,
Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
I am thy Theban, O Mentu,
The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu!"

(Silence: then:)

"ABRAHADABRA 111 - 11111 - 111 (He knocketh.)

CLOSING:

"ABRAHADABRA!

Hail unto thee, that art Ra in thy Rising! The Disk of Khephra standeth upon the waters of Amentet: It is the Hour of the Dispersal of the Lords of Silence."

111 - 11111 - 111 (He knocketh)

(Rising, he doeth the ceremony, precisely as in the opening unto the 2nd verse of the song called the spell. But he goeth with the Sun, as allowing Nature to resume her sway. At the E. of the Throne of Ra he standeth and crieth:)

"It is the Hour of the Feast of Ra-Hoor-Khuit."

(Lifting up the cakes of the Holy one of Light, the priest shall recite:)

"I fly like an hawk! I perch upon that abode of the Aat on the festival of the Mighty one of light. Let us live upon that which the Gods give us, & the Khus; let us live and get power by these cakes; let us eat them before the gods and the Khus; let us get power by these cakes! Let us eat thereof under the shade of the leaves of the Palm tree of that ..., our Lady and our Holy one of Heaven!

Let the offering of the Sacrifice (He maketh such) and the offering of cakes (He lifteth them) and vessels of libation (He poureth it) be made in them!

My head is like unto the Head of Ra, and my limbs are strong as the limbs of Tum.

My tongue is the tongue of Ptah & my throne is the Throne of our Lady Ahathoor.

I utter the words of my father Tum; the handmaid of Seb is constrained, and all are bowed in fear before me.

They glorify me in their hymns; divine Hair of Seb is the name wherein They do invoke me to protect the Earth, who am its Lord and God. The god Seb refreshing me maketh his ... as mine own.

The dwellers in Amun bow down their heads unto me for I am their Lord, their Bull.

I am more powerful than the Lord of Time; I shall enjoy the pleasures of love, and gain the mastery over millions of years."

(He then resumeth the Throne of Ra, as the might of god, saying:)

"The light is mine; its rays consume
Me: I have made a secret door 
Into the House of Ra and Tum,
Of Khephra and of Ahathoor.
I am thy Theban, O Mentu
The prophet Ankh-af-na-khonsu!"

(Rising he moveth to the West or as some say to the South saying with the sign:)

"Hathoor, Lady of Amentet, mighty dweller in the funeral mountain, eye of Ra, dweller before Him, beautiful of fire in the boat of millions of years, be they favorable unto us, and let Thy light and beauty be with us Thy lovers in the House of Peace!

ABRAHADABRA 111 - 11111 - 111 (He knocketh)

[This opening and closing of the Temple is observable on all occasions. Any other ceremony, such as Evocation, Invocation, Initiation and all secret Rituals, should be performed when the Temple is "open". Also, in the case of Initiations their Birth, Death, and Marriage, (with such additional Rituals as may be taught) should take place actually in an open Temple.

Followeth the ceremony of admitting a Neophyte to the Mysteries, which is to be performed upon him before he is admitted to an Ordeal.]

The Ritual called "Passing through the TUAT"

(The officers are Three in number, invisible are Ta-Nech for Nuit, Bes-n-Maut for Hadit. Thence cometh forth Visable, the lowest point of the Red Triangle of our Order, Ankh-f-n-Khonsu for Ra-Hoor-Khuit. The ceremony is to join the candidate, or ego, with him.

The officer is also Tem, to open, Ra to close; Kephra, to Admit, and Ahathoor, to seal the grade. He is thus the Pentagram in himself, ... the Hierophant. His dress is that of the Magus described by Abramelin. The wand is in his hand; but the spear and sword are ready. The candidate, dresses as is his custom, fasts for four and twenty hours. Before the admission he eats a full meal. Then the officer, approaching sayeth:)

"Hail! hail unto thee O Tum, who comest forth from the abyss of water! Hail unto thee, who shinest with double splendour, let thy words be spoken with might unto those Khus that abide in the Hall, and let ------ Triumphant enter into their assembly. ------ hath performed the decree which hath been spoken to the armies of Ra at eventide; therefore let him/her come forth as a living khu in the place of the Dead; let the gods rejoice , one and all, crying aloud: Hail! ---------- ! even as they cry: Hail, O Ptah that ariseth from the Holy Place of the ancient One that is Annu!"

(The candidate then undresses; and is clad in the shroud of a corpse. His feet and hands are wrapped closely, his mouth is stopped, and his eyes are blindfolded. He is then placed in the Coffin. The officer approaches, now that the coffin has been carried into the darkened temple. He stops with a napkin dipped in the consecrated water the nostrils of the candidate, much distressing him.)

"Hail thou God Temu, grant unto me the sweet breath that dwelleth in thy nostrils!"

(The officer unstops the nostrils of the Candidate, and breaths from his nostrils upon them.)

"Homage to thee, O thou Lord of Brightness, at the head of the great House, prince of the night & of thick darkness, I am come forth as a pure Khu. My two hands are behind me and my lot is as that of my forefathers! O grant thou me thy mouth, that I may speak therewith, and guide thou to me mine heart in the hour of cloud and darkness!"

(The officer removes the mouth wrapping, and kisses the candidate upon the mouth.)

"Homage to thee, O Ra, who in thy setting art Tum-Heru-Khut, of thou divine one, O Thou who hast formulated Thy Father & made fertile thy mother! Thou primeval orb, whence all things arise!

When thou appearest in the back of thy Bark men shout for joy at thee, thou maker of the gods! Thou didst stretch out the heaven wherein thy two eyes might travel, thou didst make the Earth to be a vast chamber for thy Khus, so that every man might know his fellow. The Sektet boat is glad, and the Matet Boat rejoiceth, and they greet thee with exaltation as thou journeyest along. The God Nu is content and thy mariners are satisfied. The Uraeus hath overthrown thine enemies & thou hast carried off the legs of Apep!"

(The officer unbinds the legs of the Candidate.)

"Thou art beautiful O Ra, each day; and thy mother Nuit embraceth thee; thou settest in beauty and thy heart is glad when thou in the horizon of Manu the mountain of the West; and the Holy ones thereof rejoice. The hearts of the Lords of the Tuat are glad when thou sendest forth thy light in Amentet; Their two eyes are directed towards thee!"

(The officer removes the eye-bandage, makes a flash of light, and gazes deeply into the eyes of the candidate, as he says:)

"They press forward to see thee; their hearts rejoice when they see thee at the end!"

Thou hearkeneth unto the cries of them that are in the funeral Chest; thou dost away with their helplessness and drivest away the evils that are about them."

(The officer unbinds & presses the hands of the candidate.)

"I am thy father that lifteth thee up!"

(He raises the Candidate.)

"Thou givest breath to their nostrils, and they take hold of the bows of thy Bark in the horizon of Manu. Thou art beautiful every day, O Ra! May thy mother Nuit embrace ------ victorious!"

(The officer looses and lets fall the shroud, and embraces the Candidate.

The officer leaves the Candidate, and circumambulates the temple 11 times widdershins, chanting the song 'Even as the traitors breath... etc.)

(He then approaches the Candidate and says:)

"Repeat after me: I who am nothing deny all that I was; I who am nothing affirm all that I shall be. I swear that as Nuit is about me, as Hadit is within me, so am I Ra-Hoor-Khuit! And blessing and worship to the Beast, the prophet of the Lovely Star!"

(The officer withdrawing the brand 666 from the altar, marks the Candidate on brow, heart, & head.

The officer now circumambulates the temple 11 times reciting:)

"I am the girdle of the robe of the god Nu (here he robes the candidate in the proper robe) which shineth and sheddeth light upon that which belongeth to his breast, sending forth light into darkness, bringing to peace the two gods that are at war in his heart.

Mine is the mighty spell that raiseth up him that was fallen.

I have taken possession of the Lord of Darkness; I have rescued the eye of the Sun.

I have brought forth Thoth, and made even the scales of balance.

Mine is the Ureret-Crown; Maat is in my body; its' mouths are of turquoise and rock crystals; my home is among the burrows of lapis-lazuli: I am he that sheddeth light in the darkness: The darkness is made light and bright by me.

I have given light in the darkness.

I have overthrown the devourers.

I have sung praises to them that dwell in the darkness.

I have raised up those that wept, that had hidden their faces and sunk down for sorrow; and they did look upon me.

Hail, for I am He whose voice is silence.

I have opened the way; I have made light the darkness; I am come, having made an end of the darkness, which hath become light indeed."

(The lights are turned fully on. The candidate is led from the Temple to the ... of the boat. This boat is 7 cubits in length. It is of green porcelain, and canopied with a heaven of stars, consecrated. At the bow is the golden Disk of RA, with his image. The officer says:)

"The paths which are above are laid unto rest ... Hail thou great god who art in thy boat, bring thou me into thy boat."

(The officer puts the candidate into the boat.)

"I have entered the boat and I sail by the command of Ra.

(Place canopy of heaven over the boat.)

"Get thee back o serpent dwellers in Fire, that maketh to 
cease the motion of my boat. Get thee back to the sky, for that 
which is in my hand is ready.
I stand up in the place of restraint; the boat advanceth 
taking heed to thy way; thy head is covered up while I sail on 
over the heaven.
I am he who lifteth up strength; I am come; I am become 
master of the serpents of RA when he setteth in my sight, at 
eventide I go round about heaven; but thou art fettered with the 
fetters that Ra hath ordained. 
I, even I, guide the ... wherewith Apep is driven back, and 
I know the divine souls of the West: Tum, and Sebek the lord of 
Baklan, and Hathoor the lady of the Evening."

(The boat advances:)

"I, even I know the eastern gate of heaven whence RA cometh 
with a favorable wind. I am the helmsman of the eternal Bark; I 
know the two sycamores of ... between which RA showeth himself.
I, even I, know the divine souls of the East, Heru-khuit, 
and the calf of the Goddess Khera, the Bright morning star.

(The boat advances to the first Pylon.)

"Get thee back! Return! Get thee back, thou crocodile Sui!
Thou shalt not advance to me, for I live by the magical 
words of my mouth."

(The boat circles the Temple deosil, leaves it, & again faces the Pylon. So for each utterance. )

"My front teeth are like knives & my jaw-teeth are like unto 
his that dwelleth upon the Hill of Terror!"

(Circle)

"Hail thou that sittest with thine eyeballs upon my magical words."

(Circle)

"Thou shalt not carry me away, O thou serpent Rerek, and 
advance not hither unto me! Stand thou still and thou shall eat 
the vat of the abomination unto Ra! Thou shalt crunch the bones 
of the Cat of Slime!"

(Circle)

"Depart from me, Aphast, for thou hast lips that gnaw! For I 
am Khnemu, the Lord of ... Peshemu ... I bring the words of the 
gods to RA.

(Circle)

"Homage to you, ye two Rekht Goddesses, ye sisters twin."

(Circle)

"Hail ye two Mert goddesses, I bring a message to you 
concerning my magical words.
I shine from the Sektet boat.
I am Ra-Hoor-Kaa, the sun of strength and light."

(Circle)

"Get thee back, depart, get thee back from me, O Apep!
Depart from the divine place of Ra's birth, where in is the 
House of thy Terror!

I am Ra, terrible and triumphant.
Ra setteth, Ra setteth; Ra is strong at his setting.
Apep hath fallen; Apep the enemy of Ra is overcome.

(Circle)

"Get thee back, Hai, thou impure one, abomination of Asar!
Tahuti hath cut off thine head and I have slain thee and 
hurled thee utterly asunder. Get thee back from the Neshuet boat, 
as with a fair wind Ra saileth over his heaven.

(Circle)

"O thou Scepter of joy! Let me not be hurt of any; nor by 
man, nor by gods, nor by the holy dead, nor by the violently 
slain, nor by them of old times, nor by any mortal, nor by any 
human soul!"

(The boat entereth the temple, and circleth it, but not going out; it is brought to the center thereof. The canopy is removed.)

"My hair is the hair of Nu!
My face is the face of the Disk!
My eyes are the eyes of Hathor!
My ears are the ears of Apu-t!
My nose is the nose of Kheuti Khas!
My lips are the lips of Anpu!
My teeth are the teeth of Serget!
My neck is the neck of Asi!
My shoulders are the shoulders of Ba-neb-Tahtu!
My arms are the arms of Neith!
My spine is the spine of Sati!
My phallus is the phallus of Asar!
(or) My kteis is the kteis of Asi!
My Sinews are the sinews of the Lords of Keraba!
My chest is the chest of the mighty and terrible one!
My belly and back are the belly and back of Sekhet.
My buttocks are the buttocks of the Eye of Hoor.
My hips and legs are the hips and legs of Nuit!
My feet are the feet of Ptah!
My bones are the bones of the living Gods!
There is no member of my body that is not the member of some God!

[The officer, who has touched each part of the candidate (as he has named it) with his wand now raises him from the boat, and embraces him, kissing his brow. Then cries he with a loud voice:)

"ABRAHADABRA! I receive thee into the Order of Thelema!"

(He knocks 111 - 11111 - 111 )

(The boat has been removed. The candidate kneels at the altar, while the officer makes "THE GREAT INVOCATION" from his throne.)

(They then walk round the temple eleven times widdershins, the left arm of the officer around the waist of the candidate, and the candidates right arm around him. The officer sayeth as they go:)

"I am a swallow! I am a swallow! I am the scorpion, the 
daughter of Ra.
Hail thou flame whose scent is sweet!
Hail, ye gods whose scent is sweet!
Hail thou flame that cometh from the horizon! 
Hail thou Lord of the city; stretch out thy hand unto me, 
let me advance with my tidings, for my speech is of
great gladness.
Open the doors to me, and I will declare the things that I 
have seen!
Horus hath become the divine Prince of the Boat of the Sun; 
unto him hath been given the name of his father Osiris.
I have stretched out my arms at the word of Osiris; I am 
entered in, I am justified, I come forth worthy at the gate.
I am pure at the palace of the passage of souls;
I have destroyed the evil that clung to my members upon 
earth.
Hail, ye twin Hawks upon your pinnacles, ye that guard the 
gate of the abyss, for I am made as ye!
I am He that cometh forth by day.
I have passed the hidden ways; yea ________, I am He, the 
Bornless Spirit, having Sight in the feet; strong and
the immortal fire!
I am He, the Truth!
I am He, that hate that evil should be wrought in the world!
I am He, that lighteneth and thundereth!
I am He, from whom is the shower of the life of Earth.
I am He, whose mouth ever flameth!
I am He, the begetter and manifester unto the light.
I am He, the grace of the World!
The heart girt with a serpent is my name!"

(They go to the Throne.)

"O my seat, O my Throne, come unto me! and be Ye round about me!"

(He sets the candidate on his Throne.)

"I am your Lord, O ye Gods, Come ye and take your places in my train!"

(The officer prostrates himself before the Candidate, and worships him.)

(The officer rises and takes his spear from beside the candidate. He touches with its point the brand 666 and says:)

"As this brand is not to be effaced from thy body, so is this Initiation not to be effaced from thy soul!"

(The officers then lead him from the Throne and biddeth him stand at the altar, while the closing is performed. Afterward (s)he may entertain him/her, in the precincts of the Holy House to a banquet and act friendly toward him.)

(end)

"Your fathers hath fed on the manna in the wilderness and are dead."

I

Top

INQUIRY. Let us inquire in the first place: What is Scepticism? The word means looking, questioning, investigating. One must pass by contemptuously the Christian liar's gloss which interprets "sceptic" as "mocker"; though in a sense it is true for him, since to inquire into Christianity is assuredly to mock at it; but I am concerned to intensify the etymological connotation in several respects. First, I do not regard mere incredulity as necessary to the idea, though credulity is incompatible with it. Incredulity implies a prejudice in favour of a negative conclusion; and the true sceptic should be perfectly unbiassed.

Second, I exclude "vital scepticism." What's the good of anyfink? expects (as we used to learn about "nonne?") the answer, "Why nuffink!" and again is prejudiced. Indolence is no virtue in a questioner. Eagerness, intentness, concentration, vigilance --- all these I include in the connotation of "sceptic." Such questioning as has been called "vital scepticism" is but a device to avoid true questioning, and therefore its very antithesis, the devil disguised as an angel of light.

[Or "vice versƒ", friend, if you are a Satanist; 'tis a matter of words --- words --- words. You may write "x" for "y" in your equations, so long as you consistently write "y" for "x". They remain unchanged --- and unsolved. Is not all our "knowledge" an example of this fallacy of writing one unknown for another, and then crowing like Peter's cock?]

I picture the true sceptic as a man eager and alert, his deep eyes glittering like sharp swords, his hands tense with effort as he asks, "What does it matter?"

I picture the false sceptic as a dude or popinjay, yawning, with dull eyes, his muscles limp, his purpose in asking the question but the expression of his slackness and stupidity.

This true sceptic is indeed the man of science; as Wells' "Moreau" tells us. He has devised some means of answering his first question, and its answer is another question. It is difficult to conceive of any question, indeed, whose answer does not imply a thousand further questions. So simple an inquiry as "Why is sugar sweet?" involves an infinity of chemical researches, each leading ultimately to the blank wall --- what is matter? and an infinity of physiological researches, each (similarly) leading to the blank wall --- what is mind?

Even so, the relation between the two ideas is unthinkable; causality is itself unthinkable; it depends, for one thing, upon experience --- and what, in God's name, is experience? Experience is impossible without memory. What is memory? The mortar of the temple of the ego, whose bricks are the impressions. And the ego? The sum of our experience, may be. (I doubt it!) Anyhow, we have got values of "y" and "z" for "x", and the values of "x" and "z" for "y" --- all our equations are indeterminate; all our knowledge is relative, even in a narrower sense than is usually implied by the statement. Under the whip of the clown God, our performing donkeys the philosophers and men of science run round and round in the ring; they have amusing tricks: they are cleverly trained; but they get nowhere.

I don't seem to be getting anywhere myself.

II

Tp

A fresh attempt. Let us look into the simplest and most certain of all possible statements. "Thought exists", or if you will, "Cogitatur".

Descartes supposed himself to have touched bed-rock with his "Cogito," "ergo Sum."

Huxley pointed out the complex nature of this proposition, and that it was an enthymeme with the premiss "Omnes sunt, qui cogitant" suppressed. He reduced it to "Cogito;" or, to avoid the assumption of an ego, "Cogitatur."

Examining more closely this statement, we may still cavil at its form. We cannot translate it into English without the use of the verb to be, so, that, after all, existence is implied. Nor do we readily conceive that contemptuous silence is sufficient answer of the further query, "By whom is it thought?" The Buddhist may find it easy to image an act without an agent; I am not so clever. It may be possible for a sane man; but I should like to know more about his mind before I gave a final opinion.

But apart from purely formal objections, we may still inquire: Is this "Cogitatur" true?

Yes; reply the sages; for to deny it implies thought; "Negatur" is only a sub-section of "Cogitatur".

This involves, however, an axiom that the part is of the same nature as the whole; or (at the very least) an axiom that "A" is "A".

Now, I do not wish to deny that "A" is "A", or may occasionally be "A". But certainly "A is A" is a very different statement to our original "Cogitatur".

The proof of "Cogitatur", in short, rests not upon itself but upon the validity of our logic; and if by logic we mean (as we should mean) the Code of the Laws of Thought, the irritating sceptic will have many more remarks to make: for it now appears that the proof that "thought exists" depends upon the truth of that which is thought, to say no more.

We have taken "Cogitatur", to try and avoid the use of "esse;" but "A is A" involves that very idea, and the proof is fatally flawed.

"Cogitatur" depends on "Est;" and there's no avoiding it.

III

Top

Shall we get on any better if we investigate this "Est" --- Something is --- Existence is --- HB:Heh HB:Yod HB:Heh HB:Aleph HB:Resh HB:Shin HB:Aleph HB:Heh HB:Yod HB:Heh HB:Aleph ?

What is Existence? The question is so fundamental that it finds no answer. The most profound meditation only leads to an exasperating sense of impotence. There is, it seems, no simple rational idea in the mind which corresponds to the word.

It is easy of course to drown the question in definitions, leading us to further complexity --- but

"Existence is the gift of Divine Providence,"
"Existence is the opposite of Non-Existence,"
do not help us much!

The plain "Existence is Existence" of the Hebrews goes farther. It is the most sceptical of statements, in spite of its form. Existence is just existence, and there's no more to be said about it; don't worry! Ah, but there is more to be said about it! Though we search ourselves for a thought to match the word, and fail, yet we have Berkeley's perfectly convincing argument that (so far as we know it) existence must mean "thinking existence" or "spiritual existence".

Here then we find our "Est" to imply "Cogitatur;" and Berkeley's arguments are "irrefragable, yet fail to produce conviction" (Hume) because the "Cogitatur;" as we have shown, implies "Est".

Neither of these ideas is simple; each involves the other. Is the division between them in our brain a proof of the total incapacity of that organ, or is there some flaw in our logic? For all depends upon our logic; not upon the simple identity "A is A" only, but upon its whole structure from the question of simple propositions, enormously difficult from the moment when it occurred to the detestable genius that invented "existential import" to consider the matter, to that further complexity and contradiction, the syllogism.

IV

Top

"Thought is" appears then (in the worst case possible, denial) as the conclusion of the premisses:

There is denial of thought.

(All) Denial of thought is thought.

Even formally, 'tis a clumsy monster. Essentially, it seems to involve a great deal beyond our original statement. We compass heaven and earth to make one syllogism; and when we have made it, it is tenfold more the child of mystery than ourselves.

We cannot here discuss the whole problem of the validity (the surface- question of the logical validity) of the syllogism; though one may throw out the hint that the doctrine of distributed middle seems to assume a knowledge of a Calculus of Infinites which is certainly beyond my own poor attainments, and hardly impregnable to the simple reflection that all mathematics is conventional, and not essential; relative, and not absolute.

We go deeper and deeper, then, it seems, from the One into the Many. Our primary proposition depends no longer upon itself, but upon the whole complex being of man, poor, disputing, muddle-headed man! Man with all his limitations and ignorance; man --- man!

V

Top

We are of course no happier when we examine the Many, separately or together. They converge and diverge, each fresh hill-toÿ of knowledge disclosing a vast land unexplored; each gain of power in our telescÿes opening out new galaxies; each improvement in our microscoÿes showing us life minuter and more incomprehensible. A mystery of the mighty spaces between molecules; a mystery of the ether-cushions that fend off the stars from collision! A mystery of the fulness of things; a mystery of the emptiness of things! Yet, as we go, there grows a sense, an instinct, a premonition --- what shall I call it? --- that Being is One, and Thought is One, and Law is One --- until we ask What is that One?

Then again we spin words --- words --- words. And we have got no single question answered in any ultimate sense.

What is the moon made of?

Science replies "Green Cheese."

For our one moon we have now two ideas:

"Greenness," and "Cheese."

"Greenness" depends on the sunlight, and the eye, and a thousand other things.

"Cheese" depends on bacteria and fermentation and the nature of the cow.

"Deeper, even deeper, into the mire of things!"

Shall we cut the Gordian knot? shall we say "There is God"?

What, in the devil's name, is God?

If (with Moses) we picture Him as an old man showing us His back parts, who shall blame us? The great Question --- "any" question is the great question --- does indeed treat us thus cavalierly, the disenchanted Sceptic is too prone to think!

Well, shall we define Him as a loving Father, as a jealous priest, as a gleam of light upon the holy Ark? What does it matter? All these images are of wood and stone, the wood and stone of our own stupid brains! The Fatherhood of God is but a human type; the idea of a human father conjoined with the idea of immensity. Two for One again!

No combination of thoughts can be greater than the thinking brain itself; all we can think of God or say of Him, so long as our words really represent thoughts, is less than the whole brain which thinks, and orders speech.

Very good; shall we proceed by denying Him all thinkable qualities, as do the heathen? All we obtain is mere negation of thought.

Either He is unknowable, or He is less than we are. Then, too, that which is unknowable is unknown; and "God" or "There is God" as an answer to our question becomes as meaningless as any other.

Who are we, then?

We are Spencerian Agnostics, poor silly, damned Spencerian Agnostics!

And there is an end of the matter.

VI

Top

It is surely time that we began to question the validity of some of our data. So far our scepticism has not only knocked to pieces our tower of thought, but rooted up the foundation-stone and ground it into finer and more poisonous powder than that into which Moses ground the calf. These golden Elohim! Our calf-heads that brought us not out of Egypt, but into a darkness deeper and more tangible than any darkness of the double Empire of Asar.

Hume put his little ? to Berkeley's God-!; Buddha his ? to the Vedic Atman-! --- and neither Hume nor Buddha was baulked of his reward. Ourselves may put ? to our own ? since we have found no ! to put it to; and wouldn't it be jolly if our own second ? suddenly straightened its back and threw its chest out and marched off as !?

Suppose then we accept our scepticism as having destroyed our knowledge root and branch --- is there no limit to its action? Does it not in a sense stultify itself? Having destroyed logic by logic --- if Satan cast out Satan, how shall his kingdom stand?

Let us stand on the Mount, Saviours of the World that we are, and answer "Get thee behind me Satan!" though refraining from quoting texts or giving reasons.

Oho! says somebody; is Aleister Crowley here? --- Samson blinded and bound, grinding corn for the Philistines!

Not at all, dear boy!

We shall put all the questions that we can put --- but we may find a tower built upon a rock, against which the winds beat in vain.

Not what Christians call faith, be sure! But what (possibly) the forgers of the Epistles --- those eminent mystics! --- meant by faith. What I call Samadhi --- and as "faith without works is dead," so, good friends, Samadhi is all humbug unless the practitioner shows the glint of its gold in his work in the world. If your mystic becomes Dante, well; if Tennyson, a fig for his trances!

But how does this tower of Samadhi stand the assault of Question-time?

Is not the idea of Samadhi just as dependent on all the other ideas --- man, time, being, thought, logic? If I seek to explain Samadhi by analogy, am I not often found talking as if we knew all about Evolution, and Mathematics, and History? Complex and unscientific studies, mere straws before the blast of our hunchback friend!

Well, one of the buttresses is just the small matter of common sense.

The other day I was with Dorothy, and, as I foolishly imagined, very cosy: for her sandwiches are celebrated. It was surely bad taste on the part of Father Bernard Vaughan, and Dr. Torrey, and Ananda Metteyya, and Mr. G. W. Foote, and Captain Fuller, and the ghost of Immanuel Kant, and Mr. Bernard Shaw, and young Neuburg, to intrude. But intrude they did; and talk! I never heard anything like it. Every one with his own point of view; but all agreed that Dorothy was non-existent, or if existent, a most awful specimen, that her buns were stale, and her tea stewed; "ergo," that I was having a very poor time of it. Talk! Good God! But Dorothy kept on quietly and took no notice; and in the end I forgot about them.

Thinking it over soberly, I see now that very likely they were quite right: I can't prove it either way. But as a mere practical man, I intend taking the steamer --- for my sins I am in Gibraltar --- back to Dorothy at the earliest possible moment. Sandwiches of bun and German sausage may be vulgar and even imaginary --- it's the taste I like. And the more I munch, the more complacent I feel, until I go so far as to offer my critics a bite.

This sounds in a way like the "Interior Certainly" of the common or garden Christian; but there are differences.

The Christian insists on notorious lies being accepted as an essential part of his (more usually her) system; I, on the contrary, ask for facts, for observation. Under Scepticism, true, one is just as much a house of cards as the other; but only in the philosophical sense.

Practically, Science is is true; and Faith is foolish.

Practically, 3 x 1 = 3 is the truth; and 3 x 1 = 1 is a lie; though, sceptically, both statements may be false or unintelligible.

Practically, Franklin's method of obtaining fire from heaven is better than that of Prometheus or Elijah. I am now writing by the light that Franklin's discovery enabled men to use.

Practically, "I concentrated my mind upon a white radiant triangle in whose centre was a shining eye, for 22 minutes and 10 seconds, my attention wandering 45 times" is a scientific and valuable statement. "I prayed fervently to the Lord for the space of many days" means anything or nothing. Anybody who cares to do so may imitate my experiment and compare his result with mine. In the latter case one would always be wondering what "fervently" meant and who "the Lord" was, and how many days made "many."

My claim, too, is more modest than the Christian's. He (usually she) knows more about my future than is altogether pleasant; I claim nothing absolute from my Samadhi --- I know only too well the worthlessness of single-handed observations, even on so simple a matter as a boiling- point determination! --- and as for his (usually her) future, I content myself with mere common sense about the probable end of a fool.

So that after all I keep my scepticism intact - and I keep my Samadhi intact. The one balances the other; I care nothing for the vulgar brawling of these two varlets of my mind!

VII

Tp

If, however, you would really like to know what might be said on the soldierly side of the question, I shall endeavour to oblige.

It is necessary if a question is to be intelligibly put that the querent should be on the same plane as the quesited.

Answer is impossible if you ask: Are round squares triangular? or Is butter virtuous? or How many ounces go to the shilling? for the "questions" are not really questions at all.

So if you ask me Is Samadhi real? I reply: First, I pray you, establish a connection between the terms. What do you mean by Samadhi?

There is a physiological (or pathological; never mind now!) state which I call Samadhi; and that state is as real - in relation to man - as sleep, or intoxication, or death.

Philosophically, we may doubt the existence of all of these; but we have no grounds for discriminating between them - the Academic Scepticism is a wholesale firm, I hope! - and practically, I challenge you to draw valid distinctions.

All these are states of the consciousness of man; and if you seek to destroy one, all fall together.

VIII

Tp

I must, at the risk of appearing to digress, insist upon this distinction between philosoÿhical and practical points of view, or (in Qabalistic language) between Kether and Malkuth.

In private conversation I find it hard - almost impossible - to get peoÿle to understand what seems to me so very simple a point. I shall try to make it exceptionally clear.

A boot is an Illusion.

A hat is an illusion.

"Therefore," a boot is a hat.

So argue my friends, not distributing the middle term.

But this argue I.

"Therefore" (though it is not a syllogism), all boots and hats are illusions.

I add:

To the man in Kether no illusions matter.

"Therefore:" To the man in Kether neither boots nor hats matter.

In fact, the man in Kether is out of all relation to these boots and hats.

You, they say, claim to be a man in Kether (I don't). Why then, do you not wear boots on your head and hats on your feet?

I can only answer that I the man in Kether ('tis but an argument) am out of all relation as much with feet and heads as with boots and hats. But why should I (from my exalted pinnacle) stoop down and worry the headed and footed gentleman in Malkuth, who after all doesn't exist for me, by these drastic alterations in his toilet? There is no distinction whatever; I might easily put the boots on his shoulders, with his head on one foot and the hat on the other.

In short, why not be a clean-living Irish gentleman, even if you do have insane ideas about the universe?

Very good, say my friends, unabashed, then why not stick to that? Why glorify Spanish gipsies when you have married a clergyman's daughter?

Why go about proclaiming that you can get as good fun for eighteenpence as usually costs men a career?

Ah! let me introduce you to the man in Tiphereth; that is, the man who is trying to raise his consciousness from Malkuth to Kether.

This Tiphereth man is in a devil of a hole! He knows theoretically all about the Kether point of view (or thinks he does) and practically all about the Malkuth point of view. Consequently he goes about contradicting Malkuth; he refuses to allow Malkuth to obsess his thought. He keeps on crying out that there is no difference between a goat and a God, in the hope of hypnotising himself (as it were) into that perception of their identity, which is his (partial and incorrect) idea of how things look from Kether.

This man performs great magic; very strong medicine. He does really find gold on the midden and skeletons in pretty girls.

In Abiegnus the Sacred Mountain of the Rosicrucians the Postulant finds but a coffin in the central shrine; yet that coffin contains Christian Rosencreutz who is dead and is alive for evermore and hath the keys of Hell and of Death.

Ay! your Tiphereth man, child of Mercy and Justice, looks deeper than the skin!

But he seems a ridiculous object enough both to the Malkuth man and to the Kether man.

Still, he's the most interesting man there is; and we all must pass through that stage before we get our heads really clear, the Kether-vision above the Clouds that encircle the mountain Abiegnus.

IX

Top

Running and returning, like the Cherubim, we may now resume our attempt to drill our hunchback friend into a presentable soldier. The digression will not have been all digression, either; for it will have thrown a deal of light on the question of the limitations of scepticism.

We have questioned the Malkuth point of view; it appears absurd, be it agreed. But the Tiphereth position is unshaken; Tiphereth needs no telling that Malkuth is absurd. When we turn our artillery against Tiphereth, that too crumbles; but Kether frowns above us.

Attack Kether, and it falls; but the Yetziratic Malkuth is still there .... until we reach Kether of Atziluth and the Infinite Light, and Space, and Nothing.

So then we retire up the path, fighting rear-guard actions; at every moment a soldier is slain by a hunchback; but as we retire there is always a soldier just by us.

Until the end. The end? Buddha thought the supply of hunchbacks infinite; but why should not the soldiers themselves be infinite in number?

However that may be, here is the point; it takes a moment for a hunchback to kill his man, and the farther we get from our base the longer it takes. You may crumble to ashes the dream-world of a boy, as it were, between your fingers; but before you can bring the physical universe tumbling about a man's ears he requires to drill his hunchbacks so devilish well that they are terribly like soldiers themselves. And a question capable of shaking the consciousness of Samadhi could, I imagine, give long odds to one of Frederick's grenadiers.

It is useless to attack the mystic by asking him if he is quite sure Samadhi is good for his poor health; 'tis like asking the huntsman to be very careful, please, not to hurt the fox.

The ultimate Question, the one that really knocks Samadhi to pieces, is such a stupendous Idea that it is far more of a ! than all previous !'s whatever, for all its ? form.

And the name of that Question is Nibbana.

Take this matter of the soul.

When Mr. Judas McCabbage asks the Man in the Street why he believes in a soul, the Man stammers out that he has always heard so; naturally McCabbage has no difficulty in proving to him by biological methods that he has no soul; and with a sunny smile each passes on his way.

But McCabbage is wasted on the philosopher whose belief in a soul rests on introspection; we must have heavier metal; Hume will serve our turn, may be.

But Hume in his turn becomes perfectly futile, pitted against the Hindu mystic, who is in constant intense enjoyment of his new-found Atman. It takes a Buddha-gun to knock "his" castle down.

Now the ideas of McCabbage are banal and dull; those of Hume are live and virile; there is a joy in them greater than the joy of the Man in the Street. So too the Buddha-thought, Anatta, is a more splendid conception than the philosopher's Dutch-doll-like Ego, or the rational artillery of Hume.

This weapon, too, that has destroyed our lesser, our illusionary universes, ever revealing one more real, shall we not wield it with divine ecstasy? Shall we not, too, perceive the inter-dependence of the Questions and the Answers, the necessary connection of the one with the other, so that (just as 0 x ì is an indefinite) we destroy the absolutism of either ? or ! by their alternation and balance, until in our series ? ! ? ! ? ! ? ... ! ? ! ? ... we care nothing as to which may prove the final term, any single term being so negligible a quantity in relation to the vastness of the series? Is it not a series of geometrical progression, with a factor positive and incalculably vast?

In the light of the whole process, then, we perceive that there is no absolute value in the swing of the pendulum, thought its shaft lengthen, its rate grow slower, and its sweep wider at every swing.

What should interest us is the consideration of the Point from which it hangs, motionless at the height of things! We are unfavourably placed to observe this, desperately clinging as we are to the bob of the pendulum, sick with our senseless swinging to and fro in the abyss!

We must climb up the shaft to reach that point --- but --- wait one moment! How obscure and subtle has our simile become! Can we attach any true meaning to the phrase? I doubt it, seeing what we have taken for the limits of the swing. True, it may be that at the end the swing is always 360ø so that the !-point and the ?-point coincide; but that is not the same thing as having no swing at all, unless we make kinematics identical with statics.

What is to be done? How shall such mysteries be uttered?

Is this how it is that the true Path of the Wise is said to lie in a totally different plane from all his advance in the path of Knowledge, and of Trance? We have already been obliged to take the Fourth Dimension to illustrate (if not explain) the nature of Samadhi.

Ah, say the adepts, Samadhi is not the end , but the beginning. You must regard Samadhi as the normal state of mind which enables you to begin your researches, just as waking is the state from which you rise to Samadhi, sleep the state from which you rose to waking. And only from Sammasamadhi --- continuous trance of the right kind --- can you rise up as it were on tiptoe and peer through the clouds unto the mountains.

Now of course it is really awfully decent of the adepts to take all that trouble over us, and to put it so nicely and clearly. All we have to do, you see, is to acquire Sammasamadhi, and then rise on tiptoe. Just so!

But there there are the other adepts. Hard at him! Little brother, he says, let us rather consider that as the pendulum swings more and more slowly every time, it must ultimately stp, as soon as the shaft is of infinite length. Good! then it isn't a pendulum at all but a Mahalingam --- The Mahalingam of Shiva ("Namo Shivaya namaha Aum!") which is all I ever thought it was; all you have to do is to keep swinging hard --- I know it's hook-swinging! --- and you get there in the End. Why trouble to swing? First, because you are bound to swing, whether you like it or not; second, because your attention is thereby distracted from those lumbar muscles in which the hook is so very firmly fixed; third, because after all it's a ripping good game; fourth, because you want to get on, and even to seem to progress is better than standing still. A treadmill is admittedly good exercise.

True, the question, "Why become an Aarhat?" should precede, "How become an Arahat?" but an unbiassed man will easily cancel the first question with "Why not?" --- the How is not so easy to get rid of. Then, from the standpoint of the Arahat himself, perhaps this "Why did I become an Arahat?" and "How did I become an Arahat?" have but a single solution!

In any case, we are wasting our time --- we are as ridiculous with our Arahats as Herod the Tetrarch with his peacocks! We pose Life with the question Why? and the first answer is: To obtain the Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.

To attach meaning to this statement we must obtain that Knowledge and Conversation: and when we have done that, we may proceed to the next Question. It is no good asking it now.

"There are purse-proud, penniless ones who stand at the door of the tavern, and revile the guests."

We attach little importance to the Reverend Out-at-Elbows, thundering in Bareboards Chapel that the rich man gets no enjoyment from his wealth.

Good, then. Let us obtain the volume entitled "The Book of the Sacred Magick of Abramelin the Mage"; or the magical writings of that holy illuminated Man of God, Captain Fuller, and carry out fully their instructions.

And only when we have succeeded, when we have put a colossal ! against our vital ? need we inquire whether after all the soldier is not going to develoÿ spinal curvature.

Let us take the first step; let us sing:

"I do not ask to see 
The distant path; one step's enough for me."
But (you will doubtless say) I pith your ? itself with another ?: Why question life at all? Why not remain "a clean-living Irish gentleman" content with his handicap, and contemptuous of card and pencil? Is not the Buddha's goad "Everything is sorrow" little better than a currish whine? What do I care for old age, disease, and death? I'm a man, and a Celt at that. I spit on your snivelling Hindu prince, emasculate with debauchery in the first place, and asceticism in the second. A weak, dirty, paltry cur, sir, your Gautama!

Yes, I think I have no answer to that. The sudden apprehension of some vital catastrophe may have been the exciting cause of my conscious devotion to the attainment of Adeptship --- but surely the capacity was there, inborn. Mere despair and desire can do little; anyway, the first impulse of fear was the passing spasm of an hour; the magnetism of the path itself was the true lure. It is as foolish to ask me "Why do you adep?" as to ask God "Why do you pardon?" "C'est son m‚tier."

I am not so foolish as to think that my doctrine can ever gain the ear of the world. I expect that ten centuries hence the "nominal Crowleians" will be as pestilent and numerous a body as the "nominal Christians" are to-day; for (at present) I have been able to devise no mechanism for excluding them. Rather, perhaps, should I seek to find them a niche in the shrine, just as Hinduism provides alike for those capable of the Upanishads and those whose intelligence hardly reaches to the Tantras. In short, one must abandon the reality of religion for a sham, so that the religion may be universal enough for those few who are capable of its reality to nestle to its breast, and nurse their nature on its starry milk. But we anticipate!

My message is then twofold; to the greasy "bourgeois" I preach discontent; I shock him, I stagger him, I cut away earth from under his feet, I turn him upside down, I give him hashish and make him run amok, I twitch his buttocks with the red-hot tongs of my Sadistic fancy -- until he feels uncomfortable.

But to the man who is already as uneasy as St. Lawrence on his silver grill, who feels the spirit stir in him, even as a woman feels, and sickens at, the first leap of the babe in her womb, to him I bring the splendid vision, the perfume and the glory, the Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel. And to whosoever hath attained that height will I put a further Question, announce a further Glory.

It is my misfortune and not my fault that I am bound to deliver this elementary Message.

"Man has two sides; one to face the world with,
One to show a woman when he loves her."

We must pardon Browning his bawdy jest; for his truth is ower true! But it is your own fault if you are the world instead of the beloved; and only see of me what Moses saw of God!

It is disgusting to have to spend one's life jetting dirt in the face of the British public in the hope that in washing it they may wash off the acrid grease of their commercialism, the saline streaks of their hypocritical tears, the putrid perspiration of their morality, the dribbling slobber of their sentimentality and their religion. And they don't wash it! ...

But let us take a less unpleasing metaphor, the whip! As some schoolboy poet repeatedly wrote, his rimes as poor as Edwin Arnold, his metre as erratic and as good as Francis Thompson, his good sense and frank indecency a match for Browning!

"Can't be helped; must be done ---
So ..."

Nay! 'tis a bad, bad rime.

And only after the scourge that smites shall come the rod that consoles, if I may borrow a somewhat daring simile from Abdullah Haji of Shiraz and the twenty-third Psalm.

Well, I would much prefer to spend my life at the rod; it is wearisome and loathsome to be constantly flogging the tough hide of Britons, whom after all I love. "Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son that He receiveth." I shall really be glad if a few of you will get it over, and come and sit on daddy's knee!

The first step is the hardest; make a start, and I will soon set the hunchback lion and the soldier unicorn fighting for your crown. And they shall lie down together at the end, equally glad, equally weary; while sole and sublime that crown of thine (brother!) shall glitter in the frosty Void of the abyss, its twelve stars filling that silence and solitude with a music and a motion that are more silent and more still than they; thou shalt sit throned on the Invisible, thine eyes fixed upon That which we call Nothing, because it is beyond Everything attainable by thought, or trance, thy right hand gripping the azure rod of Light, thy left hand clasped upon the scarlet scourge of Death; thy body girdled with a snake more brilliant than the sun, its name Eternity; thy mouth curved moonlike in a smile, in the invisible kiss of Nuit, our Lady of the Starry Abodes; thy body's electric flesh stilled by sheer might to a movement closed upon itself in the controlled fury of Her love --- nay, beyond all these Images art thou (little brother!) who art passed from I and Thou, and He unto That which hath no Name, no Image. ...

Little brother, give me thy hand; for the first step is hard.

ALEISTER CROWLEY.

LIBER CL
Book 150
De Lege Libellum
L-n-L-n-L-n-L-n-L

This Epistle first appeared in The Equinox III(1)(Detroit: Universal, 1919). 
The quotations are from Liber Legis--The Book of the Law.--H.B.

Preface	- THE LAW
I	- OF LIBERTY
II	- OF LOVE
III	- OF LIFE
IV	- OF LIGHT
Preface

THE LAW

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

IN RIGHTEOUSNESS OF HEART come hither, and listen: for it is I, TO MEGA THERION, who gave this Law unto everyone that holdeth himself holy. It is I, not another, that willeth your whole Freedom, and the arising within you of full Knowledge and Power.

Behold! the Kingdom of God is within you, even as the Sun standeth eternal in the heavens, equal at midnight and at noon. He riseth not: he setteth not: it is but the shadow of the earth which concealeth him, or the clouds upon her face.

Let me then declare unto you this Mystery of the Law, as it hath been made known unto me in divers places, upon the mountains and in the deserts, but also in great cities, which thing I speak for your comfort and good courage. And so be it unto all of you.

Know first, that from the Law spring four Rays or Emanations: so that if the Law be the centre of your own being, they must needs fill you with their secret goodness. And these four are Light, Life, Love, and Liberty.

By Light shall ye look upon yourselves, and behold All Things that are in Truth One Thing only, whose name hath been called No Thing for a cause which later shall be declared unto you. But the substance of Light is Life, since without Existence and Energy it were naught. By Life therefore are you made yourselves, eternal and incorruptible, flaming forth as suns, self-created and self-supported, each the sole centre of the Universe.

Now by the Light ye beheld, by Love ye feel. There is an ecstacy of pure Knowledge, and another of pure Love. And this Love is the force that uniteth things diverse, for the contemplation in Light of their Oneness. Know that the Universe is not at rest, but in extreme motion whose sum is Rest. And this understanding that Stability is Change, and Change Stability, that Being is Becoming, and Becoming Being, is the Key to the Golden Palace of this Law.

Lastly, by Liberty is the power to direct your course according to your Will. For the extent of the Universe is without bounds, and ye are free to make your pleasure as ye will, seeing that the diversity of being is infinite also. For this also is the Joy of the Law, that no two stars are alike, and ye must understand also that this Multiplicity is itself Unity, and without it Unity could not be. And this is an hard saying against Reason: ye shall comprehend, when, rising above Reason, which is but a manipulation of the Mind, ye come to pure Knowledge by direct perception of the Truth.

Know also that these four Emanations of the Law flame forth upon all paths: ye shall use them not only in these Highways of the Universe whereof I have written, but in every By-path of your daily life.

Love is the law, love under will.

I

OF LIBERTY

IT IS OF LIBERTY that I would first write unto you, for except ye be free to act, ye cannot act. Yet all four gifts of the Law must in some degree be exercised, seeing that these four are one. But for the Aspirant that cometh unto the Master, the first need is freedom.

The great bond of all bonds is ignorance. How shall a man be free to act if he know not his own purpose? You must therefore first of all discover which star of all the stars you are, your relation to the other stars about you, and your relation to, and identity with, the Whole.

In our Holy Books are given sundry means of making this discovery, and each must make it for himself, attaining absolute conviction by direct experience, not merely reasoning and calculating what is probable. And to each will come the knowledge of his finite will, whereby one is a poet, one prophet, one worker in steel, another in jade. But also to each be the knowledge of his infinite Will, his destiny to perform the Great Work, the realization of his True Self. Of this Will let me therefore speak clearly unto all, since it pertaineth unto all.

Understand now that in yourselves is a certain discontent. Analyse well its nature: at the end is in every case one conclusion. The ill springs from the belief in two things, the Self and the Not-Self, and the conflict between them. This also is a restriction of the Will. He who is sick is in conflict with his own body: he who is poor is at odds with society: and so for the rest. Ultimately, therefore, the problem is how to destroy this perception of duality, to attain to the apprehension of unity.

Now then let us suppose that you have come to the Master, and that He has declared to you the Way of this attainment. What hindereth you? Alas! there is yet much Freedom afar off.

Understand clearly this: that if you are sure of your Will, and sure of your means, then any thoughts or actions which are contrary to those means are contrary also to that Will.

If therefore the Master should enjoin upon you a Vow of Holy Obedience, compliance is not a surrender of the Will, but a fulfilment thereof.

For see, what hindereth you? It is either from without or from within, or both. It may be easy for the strong-minded seeker to put his heel upon public opinion, or to tear from his heart the objects which he loves, in a sense: but there will always remain in himself many discordant affections, as also the bond of habit, and these also must he conquer.

In our holiest Book it is written: ``Thou hast no right but to do thy will. Do that, and no other shall say nay.'' Write it also in your heart and in your brain: for this is the key of the whole matter.

Here Nature herself be your preacher: for in every phenomenon of force and motion doth she proclaim aloud this truth. Even in so small a matter as driving a nail into a plank, hear this same sermon. Your nail must be hard, smooth, fine-pointed, or it will not move swiftly in the direction willed. Imagine then a nail of tinder-wood with twenty points--it is verily no longer a nail. Yet nigh all mankind are like unto this. They wish a dozen different careers; and the force which might have been sufficient to attain eminence in one is wasted on the others: they are null.

Here then let me make oÿen confession, and say thus: though I pledged myself almost in boyhood to the Great Work, though to my aid came the most puissant forces in the whole Universe to hold me to it, though habit itself now constraineth me in the right direction, yet I have not fulfilled my Will: I turn aside daily from the appointed task. I waver. I falter. I lag.

Let this then be of great comfort to you all, that if I be so imperfect--and for very shame I have not emphasized that imperfection--if I, the chosen one, still fail, then how easy for yourselves to surpass me! Or, should you only equal me, then even so how great attainment should be yours!

Be of good cheer, therefore, since both my failure and my success are arguments of courage for yourselves.

Search yourselves cunningly, I pray you, analysing your inmost thoughts. And first you shall discard all those gross obvious hindrances to your Will: idleness, foolish friendships, waste employments or enjoyments, I will not enumerate the conspirators against the welfare of your State.

Next, find the minimum of daily time which is in good sooth necessary to your natural life. The rest you shall devote to the True Means of your Attainment. And even these necessary hours you shall consecrate to the Great Work, saying consciously always while at these Tasks that you perform them only in order to preserve your body and mind in health for the right application to that sublime and single Object.

It shall not be very long before you come to understand that such a life is the true Liberty. You will feel distractions from your Will as being what they are. They will no longer appear pleasant and attractive, but as bonds, as shames. And when you have attained this point, know that you have passed the Middle Gate of this Path. For you will have unified your Will.

Even thus, were a man sitting in a theatre where the play wearies him, he would welcome every distraction, and find amusement in any accident: but if he were intent upon the play, every such incident would annoy him. His attitude to these is then an indication of his attitude towards the play itself.

At first the habit of attention is hard to acquire. Persevere, and you will have spasms of revulsion periodically. Reason itself will attack you, saying: how can so strict a bondage be the Path of Freedom?

Persevere. You have never yet known Liberty. When the temptations are overcome, the voice of Reason silenced, then will your soul bound forward unhampered upon its chosen course, and for the first time will you experience the extreme delight of being Master of Yourself, and therefore of the Universe.

When this is fully attained, when you sit securely in the saddle, then you may enjoy also all those distractions which first pleased you and then angered you. Now then will do neither any more: for they are your slaves and toys.

Until you have reached this point, you are not wholly free. You must kill out desire, and kill out fear. The end of all is the power to live according to your own nature, without danger that one part may develop to the detriment of the whole, or concern lest that danger should arise.

The sot drinks, and is drunken: the coward drinks not, and shivers: the wise man, brave and free, drinks, and gives glory to the Most High God.

This then is the Law of Liberty: you possess all Liberty in your own right, but you must buttress Right with Might: you must win Freedom for yourself in many a war. Woe unto the children who sleep in the Freedom that their forefathers won for them!

``There is no law beyond Do what thou wilt:'' but it is only the greatest of the race who have the strength and courage to obey it.

O man! behold thyself! With what pains wast thou fashioned! What ages have gone to thy shaping! The history of the planet is woven into the very substance of thy brain! Was all this for naught? Is there no purpose in thee? Wast thou made thus that thou shouldst eat, and breed, and die? Think it not so! Thou dost incorporate so many elements, thou art the fruit of so many aeons of labour, thou art fashioned thus as thou art, and not otherwise, for some colossal End.

Nerve thyself, then, to seek it and to do it. Naught can satisfy thee but the fulfilment of thy transcendent Will, that is hidden within thee. For this, then, up to arms! Win thine own Freedom for thyself! Strike hard!

II

OF LOVE

IT IS WRITTEN that ``Love is the law, love under will.'' Herein is an Arcanum concealed, for in the Greek Language Agaph, Love, is of the same numerical value as Velhma, Will. By this we understand that the Universal Will is of the nature of Love.

Now Love is the enkindling in ecstacy of Two that will to become One. It is thus an Universal formula of High Magick. For see now how all things, being in sorrow caused by dividuality, must of necessity will Oneness as their medicine.

Here also is Nature monitor to them that seek Wisdom at her breast: for in the uniting of elements of opposite polarities is there a glory of heat, of light, and of electricity. Thus also in mankind do we behold the spiritual fruit of poetry and all genius, arising from the seed of what is but an animal gesture, in the estimation of such as are schooled in Philosophy. And it is to be noted strongly that the most violent and divine passions are those between peple of utterly unharmonious natures.

But now I would have you to know that in the mind are no such limitations in respect of species as prevent a man falling in love with an inanimate object, or an idea. For to him that is in any wise advanced upon the Way of Meditation it appears that all objects save the One Object are distasteful, even as appeared formerly in respect of his chance wishes to the Will. So therefore all objects must be grasped by the mind, and heated in the sevenfold furnace of Love, until with explosion of ecstacy they unite, and disappear, for they, being imperfect, are destroyed utterly in the creation of the Perfection of Union, even as the persons of the Lover and the Beloved are fused into the spiritual gold of Love, which knoweth no person, but comprehendeth all.

Yet since each star is but one star, and the coming together of any two is but one partial rapture, so must the aspirant to our holy Science and Art increase constantly by this method of assimilating ideas, that in the end, become capable of apprehending the Universe in one thought, he may leap forth upon It with the massed violence of his Self, and destroying both these, become that Unity whose name is No Thing. Seek ye all therefore constantly to unite yourselves in rapture with each and every thing that is, and that by utmost passion and lust of Union. To this end take chiefly all such things as are naturally repulsive. For what is pleasant is assimilated easily and without ecstacy: it is in the transfiguration of the loathsome and abhorred into The Beloved that the Self is shaken to the root in Love.

Thus in human love also we see that mediocrities among men mate with null women: but History teacheth us that the supreme masters of the world seek ever the vilest and most horrible creatures for their concubines, overstepping even the limiting laws of sex and species in their necessity to transcend normality. It is not enough in such natures to excite lust or passion: the imagination itself must be enflamed by every means.

For us, then, emancipated from all base law, what shall we do to satisfy our Will to Unity? No less a mistress than the Universe: no lupanar more cramped than Infinite Space: no night of rape that is not co-eval with Eternity!

Consider that as Love is mighty to bring forth all Ecstacy, so absence of Love is the greatest craving. Whoso is balked in Love suffereth indeed, but he that hath not actively that passion in his heart towards some object is weary with the ache of craving. And this state is called mystically ``Dryness.'' For this there is, as I believe, no cure but patient persistence in a Rule of life.

But this Dryness hath its virtue, in that thereby the soul is purged of those things that impeach the Will: for when the drouth is altogether perfect, then is it certain that by no means can the Soul be satisfied, save by the Accomplishment of the Great Work. And this is in strong souls a stimulus to the Will. It is the Furnace of Thirst that burneth up all dross within us.

But to each act of Will is a particular Dryness corresponding: and as Love increaseth within you, so doth the torment of His absence. Be this also unto you for a consolation in the ordeal! Moreover, the more fierce the plague of impotence, the more swiftly and suddenly is it wont to abate.

Here is the method of Love in Meditation. Let the Aspirant first practice and then discipline himself in the Art of fixing the attention upon any thing whatsoever at will, without permitting the least imaginable distraction.

Let him also practice the art of the Analysis of Ideas, and that of refusing to allow the mind its natural reaction to them, pleasant or unpleasant, thus fixing himself in Simplicity and Indifference. These things being achieved in their ripe season, be it known to you that all ideas will have become equal to your apprehension, since each is simple and each indifferent: any one of them remaining in the mind at Will without stirring or striving, or tending to pass on to any other. But each idea will possess one special quality common to all: this, that no one of any of them is The Self, inasmuch as it is perceived by The Self as Something Opposite.

When this is thorough and profound in the impact of its realization, then is the moment for the aspirant to direct his Will to Love upon it, so that his whole consciousness findeth focus upon that One Idea. And at the first it may be fixed and dead, or lightly held. This may then pass into dryness, or into repulsion. Then at last by pure persistence in that Act of Will to Love, shall Love himself arise, as a bird, as a flame, as a song, and the whole Soul shall wing a fiery path of music unto the Ultimate Heaven of Possession.

Now in this method there are many roads and ways, some simple and direct, some hidden and mysterious, even as it is with human love whereof no man hath made so much as the first sketches for a Map: for Love is infinite in diversity even as are the Stars. For this cause do I leave Love himself master in the heart of every one of you: for he shall teach you rightly if you but serve him with diligence and devotion even to abandonment.

Nor shall you take umbrage or surprise at the strange pranks that he shall play: for He is a wayward boy and wanton, wise in the Wiles of Aphrodite Our Lady His sweet Mother: and all His jests and cruelties are spices in a confection cunning as no art may match.

Rejoice therefore in all His play, not remitting in any wise your own ardour, but glowing with the sting of His whips, and making of Laughter itself a sacrament adjuvant to Love, even as in the Wine of Rheims is sparkle and bite, like as they were ministers to the High Priest of its Intoxication.

It is also fit that I write to you of the importance of Purity in Love. Now this matter concerneth not in any wise the object or the method of the practice: the one thing essential is that no alien element should intrude. And this is of most particular pertinence to the aspirant in that primary and mundane aspect of his work wherein he establisheth himself in the method through his natural affections.

For know, that all things are masks or symbols of the One Truth, and nature serveth alway to point out the higher perfection under the veil of the lower perfection. So then all the Art and Craft of human love shall serve you as an hieroglyphic: for it is written that That which is above is like that which is below: and That which is below is like that which is above.

Therefore also doth it behoove you to take well heed lest in any manner you fail in this business of purity. For though each act is to be complete on its own plane, and no influence of any other plane is to be brought in for interference or admixture, for that such is all impurity, yet each act should in itself be so complete and perfect that it is a mirror of the perfection of every other plane, and thereby becometh partaker of the pure Light of the highest. Also, since all acts are to be acts of Will in Freedom on every plane, all planes are in reality but one: and thus the lowest expression of any function of that Will is to be at the same time an expression of the highest Will, or only true Will, which is that already implied in the acceptance of the Law.

Be it also well understood of you that it is not necessary or right to shut off natural activity of any kind, as certain false folk, eunuchs of the spirit, most foully teach, to the destruction of many. For in every thing soever inhereth its own perfection prper to it, and to neglect the full operation and function of any one part bringeth distortion and degeneration to the whole. Act therefore in all ways, but transforming the effect of all these ways to the One Way of the Will. And this is possible, because all ways are in actual Truth One Way, the Universe being itself One and One Only, and its appearance as Multiplicity that cardinal illusion which it is the very object of Love to dissipate.

In the achievement of Love are two principles, that of mastering and that of yielding. But the nature of these is hard to explain, for they are subtle, and are best taught by Love Himself in the course of the operations. But it is to be said generally that the choice of one formula or the other is automatic, being the work of that inmost Will which is alive within you. Seek not then to determine consciously this decision, for herein true instinct is not liable to err.

But now I end, without further words: for in our Holy Books are written many details of the actual practices of Love. And those are the best and truest which are most subtly written in symbol and image, especially in Tragedy and Comedy, for the whole nature of these things is in this kind, Life itself being but the fruit of the flower of Love.

It is then of Life that I must needs now write to you, seeing that by every act of Will in Love you are creating it, a quintessence more mysterious and joyous than you deem, for this which men call life is but a shadow of that true Life, your birthright, and the gift of the Law of Thelema.

III

OF LIFE

SYSTOLE AND DIASTOLE: these are the phases of all component things. Of such also is the life of man. Its curve arises from the latency of the fertilized ovum, say you, to a zenith whence it declines to the nullity of death? Rightly considered, this is not wholly truth. The life of man is but one segment of a serpentine curve which reaches out to infinity, and its zeros but mark the changes from the plus to minus, and minus to plus, coefficients of its equation. It is for this cause, among many others, that wise men in old time chose the Serpent as the Hieroglyph of Life.

Life then is indestructible as all else is. All destruction and construction are changes in the nature of Love, as I have written to you in the former chapter proximate. Yet even as the blood in one pulse-throb of the wrist is not the same blood as that in the next, so individuality is in part destroyed as each life passeth; nay, even with each thought.

What then maketh man, if he dieth and is reborn a changeling with each breath? This: the consciousness of continuity given by memory, the conception of his Self as something whose existence, far from being threatened by these changes, is in verity assured by them. Let then the aspirant to the sacred Wisdom consider his Self no more as one segment of the Serpent, but as the whole. Let him extend his consciousness to regard both birth and death as incidents trivial as systole and diastole of the heart itself, and necessary as they to its function.

To fix the mind in this apprehension of Life, two modes are preferred, as preliminary to the greater realizations to be discussed in their prper order, experiences which transcend even those attainments of Liberty and Love of which I have hitherto written, and this of Life which I now inscribe in this my little book which I am making for you so that you may come unto the Great Fulfilment.

The first mode is the acquisition of the Magical Memory so-called, and the means is described with accuracy and clearness in certain of our Holy Books. But for nearly all men this is found to be a practice of exceeding difficulty. Let then the aspirant follow the impulse of his own Will in the decision to choose this or no.

The second mode is easy, agreeable, not tedious, and in the end as certain as the other. But as the way of error in the former lieth in Discouragement, so in the latter are you to be ware of False Paths. I may say indeed generally of all Works, that there are two dangers, the obstacle of Failure, and the snare of Success.

Now this second mode is to dissociate the beings which make up your life. Firstly, because it is easiest, you should segregate that Form which is called the Body of Light (and also by many other names) and set yourself to travel in this Form, making systematic exploration of those worlds which are to other material things what your own Body of Light is to your own material form.

Now it will occur to you in these travels that you come to many Gates which you are not able to pass. This is because your Body of Light is itself as yet not strong enough, or subtle enough, or pure enough: and you must then learn to dissociate the elements of that Body by a process similar to the first, your consciousness remaining in the higher and leaving the lower. In this practice do you continue, bending your Will like a great Bow to drive the Arrow of your consciousness through heavens ever higher and holier. But the continuance in this Way is itself of vital value: for it shall be that presently habit herself shall persuade you that the body which is born and dieth within so little a space as one cycle of Neptune in the Zodiac is no essential of your Self, that the Life of which you are become partaker, while itself subject to the Law of action and reaction, ebb and flow, systole and diastole, is yet insensible to the afflictions of that life which you formerly held to be your sole bond with Existence.

And here must you resolve your Self to make the mightiest endeavours: for so flowered are the meadows of this Eden, and so sweet the fruit of its orchards, that you will love to linger among them, and to take delight in sloth and dalliance therein. Therefore I write to you with energy that you should not do thus to the hindrance of your true progress, because all these enjoyments are dependent upon duality, so that their true name is Sorrow of Illusion, like that of the normal life of man, which you have set out to transcend.

Be it according to your Will, but learn this, that (as it is written) they only are happy who have desired the unattainable. It is then best, ultimately, if it be your Will to find alway your chiefest pleasure in Love, that is, in Conquest, and in Death, that is, in Surrender, as I have written to you already. Thus then you shall delight in these delights aforesaid, but only as toys, holding your manhood firm and keen to pierce to deeper and holier ecstacies without arrest of Will.

Furthermore, I would have you to know that in this practice, pursued with ardour unquenchable, is this especial grace, that you will come as it were by fortune into states which transcend the practice itself, being of the nature of those Works of Pure Light of which I will to write to you in the chapter following after this. For there be certain Gates which no being who is still conscious of dividuality, that is, of the Self and not-Self as opposites, may pass through: and in the storming of those Gates by fiery assault of lust celestial, your flame will burn vehemently against your gross Self, though it be already divine beyond your present imagining, and devour it in a mystical death, so that in the Passing of the Gate all is dissolved in formless Light of Unity.

Now then, returning from these states of being, and in the return also there is a Mystery of Joy, you will be weaned from the Milk of Darkness of the Moon, and made partaker of the Sacrament of Wine that is the blood of the Sun. Yet at the first there may be shock and conflict, for the old thought persists by force of its habit: it is for you to create by repeated act the true right habit of this consciousness of the Life which abideth in Light. And this is easy, if your will be strong: for the true Life is so much more vivid and quintessential than the false that (as I rudely estimate) one hour of the former makes an impression on the memory equal to one year of the latter. One single experience, in duration it may be but a few seconds of terrestrial time, is sufficient to destroy the belief in the reality of our vain life on earth: but this wears gradually away if the consciousness, through shock or fear, adhere not to it, and the Will strive not continually to repetition of that bliss, more beautiful and terrible than death, which it hath won by virtue of Love.

There be moreover many other modes of attaining the apprehension of true Life, and these two following are of much value in breaking up the ice of your mortal error in the vision of your being. And of these the first is the constant contemplation of the Identity of Love and Death, and the understanding of the dissolution of the body as an Act of Love done upon the Body of the Universe, as also it is written at length in our Holy Books. And with this goeth, as it were sister with twin brother, the practice of mortal love as a sacrament symbolical of that great Death: as it is written ``Kill thyself'': and again ``Die daily.''

And the second of these lesser modes is the practice of the mental apprehension and analysis of ideas, mainly as I have already taught you, but with especial emphasis in choice of things naturally repulsive, in particular, death itself, and its phenomena ancillary. Thus the Buddha bade his disciples to meditate upon Ten Impurities, that is, upon ten cases of death of decomposition, so that the Aspirant, identifying himself with his own corpse in all these imagined forms, might lose the natural horror, loathing, fear or disgust which he might have had for them. Know this, that every idea of every sort becomes unreal, phantastic, and most manifest illusion, if it be subjected to persistent investigation, with concentration. And this is particularly easy to attain in the case of all bodily impressions, because all material things, and especially those of which we are first conscious, namely, our own bodies, are the grossest and most unnatural of all falsities. For there is in us all, latent, that Light wherein no error may endure, and It already teaches our instinct to reject first of all those veils which are most closely wrapt about It. Thus also in meditation it is (for many men) most profitable to concentrate the Will to Love upon the sacred centres of nervous force: for they, like all things, are apt images or true reflexions of their semblables in finer spheres: so that, their gross natures being dissipated by the dissolving acid of the Meditation, their finer souls appear (so to speak) naked, and display their force and glory in the consciousness of the aspirant.

Yea, verily, let your Will to Love burn eagerly toward this creation in yourselves of the true Life that rolls its waves across the shoreless sea of Time! Live not your petty lives in fear of the hours! The Moon and Sun and Stars by which ye measure Time are themselves but servants of that Life which pulses in you, joyous drum-beat as you march triumphant through the Avenue of the Ages. Then, when each birth and death of yours are recognized in this perception as mere milestones on your ever-living Road, what of the foolish incidents of your mean lives? Are they not grains of sand blown by the desert wind, or pebbles that you spurn with your winged feet, or grassy hollows were you press the yielding and elastic turf and moss with lyrical dances? To him who lives in Life naught matters: his is eternal motion, energy, delight of never-failing Change: unwearied, you pass on from aeon to aeon, from star to star, the Universe your playground, its infinite variety of sport ever old and ever new. All those ideas which bred sorrow and fear are known in their truth, and thus become the seed of joy: for you are certain beyond all proof that you can never die; that, though you change, change is part of your own nature: the Great Enemy is become the Great Ally.

And now, rooted in this perfection, your Self become the very Tree of Life, you have a fulcrum for your lever: you are ready to understand that this pulsation of Unity is itself Duality, and therefore, in the highest and most sacred sense, still Sorrow and Illusion; which having comprehended, aspire yet again, even unto the Fourth of the Gifts of the Law, unto the End of the Path, even unto Light.

IV

OF LIGHT

I PRAY YOU, be patient with me in that which I shall write concerning Light: for here is a difficulty, ever increasing, in the use of words. Moreover, I am myself carried away constantly and overwhelmed by the sublimity of this matter, so that plain speech may whirl into lyric, when I would plod peaceably with didactic, expression. My best hope is that you may understand by virtue of the sympathy of your intuition, even as two lovers may converse in language as unintelligible to others as it seemeth silly, wanton, and dull, or as in that other intoxication given by Ether the partakers commune with infinite wit, or wisdom, as the mood taketh them, by means of a word or a gesture, being initiated to apprehension by the subtlety of the drug. So may I that am inflamed with love of this Light, and drunken on the wine Ethereal of this Light, communicate not so much with your reason and intelligence, but with that principle hidden in yourself which is ready to partake with me. Even so may man and woman become mad with love, no word being spoken between them, because of the induction (as it were) of their souls. And your understanding will depend upon your ripeness for perception of my Truth. Moreover, if so be that Light in you be ready to break forth, then Light will interpret to you these dark words in the language of Light, even as a string inanimate, duly adjusted, will vibrate to its peculiar tone, struck on another cord. Read, therefore, not only with the eye and brain, but with the rhythm of the Life which you have attained by your Will to Love quickened to dancing measure by these words, which are the movements of the wand of my Will to Love, and so to enkindle your Life to Light.

In this mood did I interrupt myself in the writing of this my little book, and for two days and nights sleeplessly have I made consideration, wrestling vehemently with my spirit, lest by haste or carelessness I might fail toward you.

In exercise of Will and of Love are implied motion and change, but in Life is gained an Unity which moveth and changeth only in pulse or in phase, and is even as music. Yet in the attainment of this Life you will already have experienced that the Quintessence thereof is pure Light, an ecstacy formless, and without bound or mark. In this Light naught exists, for It is homogeneous: and therefore have men called it Silence, and Darkness, and Nothing. But in this, as in all other effort to name it, is the root of every falsity and misapprehension, since all words imply some duality. Therefore, though I call it Light, it is not Light, nor absence of Light. Many also have sought to describe it by contradictions, since through transcendent negation of all speech it may by some natures be attained. Also by images and symbols have men striven to express it: but always in vain. Yet those that were ready to apprehend the nature of this Light have understood by sympathy: and so shall it be with you who read this little book, loving it. However, be it known unto you that the best of all instruction on this matter, and the Word best suited to the Aeon of Horus, is written in The Book of the Law. Yet also the Book Ararita is right worthy in the Work of the Light, as Trigrammaton in that of Will, Cordis Cincti Serpente in the Way of Love, and Liberi in that of Life. All these Books also concern all these Four Gifts, for in the end you will see that every one is inseparable from every other.

I wish to write to you with regard to the number 93, the number of Velhma. For it is not only the number of its interpretation Agaph, but also that of a Word unknown to you unless you be Neophyte of our Holy Order of the A...A... which word representeth in itself the arising of the Speech from the Silence, and the return thereunto in the End. Now this number 93 is thrice 31, which is in Hebrew LA, that is to say NOT, and so it denieth extension in the three dimensions of Space. Also I would have you to meditate most closely upon the name NU that is 56, which we are told to divide, add, multiply, and understand. By division cometh forth 0.12, as if it were written Nuith! Hadith! Ra- Hoor-Khuith! before the Dyad. By addition ariseth Eleven, the number of True Magick: and by multiplication Three Hundred, the Number of the Holy Spirit or Fire, the letter Shin, wherein all things are consumed utterly. With these considerations, and a full understanding of the mysteries of the Numbers 666 and 418, you will be armed mightily in this Way of far flight. But you should also consider all numbers in their scales. For there is no means of resolution better than this of pure mathematics, since already therein are gross ideas made fine, and all is ordered and ready for the Alchemy of the Great Work.

I have already written to you of how, in the Will of Love, Light ariseth as the secret part of Life. And in the first, the little, Loves, the attained Life is still personal: later, it becometh impersonal and universal. Now then is Will arrived, may I say so, at its magnetic pole, whence the lines of force point alike every way and no way: and Love also is no more a work, but a state. These qualities are become part of the Universal Life, which proceedeth infinitely with the enjoyment of the Will, and of Love as inherent therein. These things therefore, in their perfection, have lost their names, and their natures. Yet these were the Substance of Life, its Father and Mother: and without their operation and impact Life itself will gradually cease its pulsations. But since the infinite energy of the whole Universe is therein, what then is possible but that it return to its own First Intention, dissolving itself little by little into that Light which is its most secret and most subtle Nature?

For this Universe is in Truth Zero, being an equation whereof Zero is the sum. Whereof this is the proof, that if not, it would be unbalanced, and something would have come from Nothing, which is absurd. This Light or Nothing is then the Resultant or Totality thereof in pure Perfection; and all other states, positive or negative, are imperfect, since they omit their opposites.

Yet, I would have you consider that this equality or identity of equation between all things and No thing is most absolute, so that you will remain no more in the one than you did in the other. And you will understand this greatest Mystery very easily in the light of those other experiences which you will have enjoyed, wherein motion and rest, change and stability, and many other subtle opposites, have been redeemed to identity by the force of your holy meditation.

The greatest gift of the Law, then, cometh forth by the most perfect practice of the Three Lesser Gifts. And so thoroughly must you travail in this Work that you are able to pass from one side of the equation to the other at will: nay, to comprehend the whole at once, and for ever. This then your time-and-space-bound soul shall travel according to its nature in its orbit, revealing the Law to them that walk in chains, for that this is your particular function.

Now here is the Mystery of the Origin of Evil. Firstly, by Evil we mean that which is in opposition to our own wills: it is therefore a relative, and not an absolute, term. For everything which is the greatest evil of some one is the greatest good of some other, just as the hardness of the wood which wearieth the axeman is the safety of him that ventureth himself upon the sea in a ship built of that wood. And this is a truth easy to apprehend, being superficial, and intelligible to the common mind.

All evil is thus relative, or apparent, or illusory: but, returning to philosophy, I will repeat that its root is always in duality. Therefore the escape from this apparent evil is to seek the Unity, which you shall do as I have already shewn you. But I will now make mention of that which is written concerning this in The Book of the Law.

The first step being Will, Evil appears as by this definition, ``all that hinders the execution of the Will.'' Therefore is it written: ``The word of Sin is Restriction.'' It should also be noted that in The Book of the Thirty Aethyrs {Book 418} Evil appears as Choronzon whose number is 333, which in Greek importeth Impotence and Idleness: and the nature of Choronzon is Dispersion and Incoherence.

Then in the Way of Love Evil appears as ``all that which tends to prevent the Union of any two things.'' Thus The Book of the Law sayeth, under the figure of the Voice of Nuit: ``take your fill and will of love as ye will, when, where and with whom ye will! But always unto me.'' For every act of Love must be ``under will,'' that is, in accordance with the True Will, which is not to rest content with things partial and transitory, but to proceed firmly to the End. So also, in The Book of the Thirty Aethyrs, the Black Brothers are those who shut themselves up, unwilling to destroy themselves by Love.

Thirdly, in the Way of Life Evil appears under a subtler form as ``all that which is not impersonal and universal.'' Here The Book of the Law, by the Voice of Hadit, informeth us: ``In the sphere I am everywhere the centre''. And again: ``I am Life and the giver of Life'' {....} `` `Come unto me' is a foolish word: for it is I that go.'' ``For I am perfect, being Not''. For this Life is in every place and time at once, so that in It these limitations no longer exist. And you will have seen this for yourself, that in every act of Love time and space disappear with the creation of the Life by its virtue, as also doth personality itself. For the third time, then, in even subtler sense, ``The word of Sin is Restriction.''

Lastly, in the Way of Light this same versicle is the key to the conception of Evil. But here Restriction is in the failure to solve the Great Equation, and, later, to prefer one expression or phase of the Universe to the other. Against this we are warned in The Book of the Law by the Word of Nuit, saying: ``None'' {....} ``and two. For I am divided for love's sake, for the chance of union'', and therefore, ``If this be not aright: if ye confound the space marks, saying: They are one: or saying, They are many;'' {....} ``then expect the direful judgments'' {....}

Now therefore by the favour of Thoth am I come to the end of this my book: and do you arm yourselves accordingly with the Four Weapons: the Wand for Liberty, the Cup for Love, the Sword for Life, the Disk for Light: and with these work all wonders by the Art of High Magick under the Law of the New Aeon, whose Word is Thelema.

THE TAO TEH KING (LIBER CLVII)

A New Translation By
KO YUEN
(ALEISTER CROWLEY)
THE EQUINOX (Volume III, No. VIII.)

INTRODUCTION

I bound myself to devote my life to Magick at Easter 1898, and received my first initiation on November 18 of that year.

My friend and climbing companion, Oscar Eckenstein, gave me my first instructions in learning the control of the mind early in 1901 in Mexico City. Shri Parananda, Solicitor General of Ceylon and an eminent writer upon and teacher of Yoga from the orthodox Shaivite standpoint, and Bhikkhu Ananda Metteya, the great English Adept, who was one of my earliest instructors in Magick and joined the Sangha in Burma in 1902, gave me my first groundings in mystical theory and practice. I spent some months of 1901 in Kandy, Ceylon, with the latter until success crowned my work.

I also studied all varieties of Asiatic philosophy, especially with regard to the practical question of spiritual development, the Sufi doctrines, the Upanishads, the Sankhya, Vedanta, the Bagavad Gita and Purana, the Dhammapada, and many other classics, together with numerous writings on the Tantra and Yoga of such men as Patanjali, Vivekananda, etc. etc. Not a few of these teachings are as yet wholly unknown to scholars. I made the scope of {1} my studies as comprehensive as possible, omitting no school of thought however unimportant or repugnant.

I made a critical examination of all these teachers in the light of my practical experiences. The physiological and psychological uniformity of mankind guaranteed that the diversity of expression concealed a unity of significance. This discovery, furthermore, was confirmed by reference to Jewish, Greek and Celtic traditions. One quintessential truth was common to all cults, from the Hebrides to the Yellow Sea, and even the main branches proved essentially identical. It was only the foliage that exhibited incompatibility.

When I walked across China in 1905-6, I was fully armed and accoutred by the above qualifications to attack the till-then-insoluble problem of the Chinese conception of religious truth. Practical studies of the psychology of such Mongolians as I had met in my travels, had already suggested to me that their acentric conception of the universe might represent the correspondence in consciousness of their actual psychological characteristics. I was therefore prepared to examine the doctrines of their religious and {2} philosophical Masters without prejudice such as had always rendered nugatory the efforts of missionary sinologists and indeed all oriental scholars with the single exception of Rhys Davids. Until his time translators had invariably assumed, with absurd naivite, or more often arrogant bigotry, that a Chinese writer must either be putting forth a more or less distorted and degraded variation of some Christian conception, or utterly puerile absurdities. Even so great a man as Max Muller in his introduction to the Upanishads seems only half inclined to admit that the apparent triviality and folly of many passages in these so-called sacred writings might owe their appearance to our ignorance of the historical and religious circumstances, a knowledge of which would render them intelligible.

During my solitary wanderings among the mountainous wastes of Yun Nan, the spiritual atmosphere of China penetrated my consciousness, thanks to the absence of any intellectual impertinences from the organ of knowledge. The TAO TEH KING revealed its simplicity and sublimity to my soul, little by little, as the conditions of my physical life, no less than of my spiritual, penetrated the {3} sanctuaries of my spirit. The philosophy of Lao Tze communicated itself to me, in despite of the persistent efforts of my mind to compel it to conform with my preconceived notions of what the text must mean. This process, having thus taken root in my innermost intuition during those tremendous months of wandering across Yun Nan, grew continually throughout succeeding years. Whenever I found myself able once more to withdraw myself from the dissipations and distractions which contact with civilisation forces upon one, no matter how vigorously he may struggle against their insolence, to the sacred solitude of the desert, whether among the sierras of Spain, or the sands of the Sahara, I found that the philosophy of Lao Tze resumed its sway upon my soul, subtler and stronger on each successive occasion.

But neither Europe nor Africa can show such desolation as America. The proudest, stubbornest, bitterest peasant of deserted Spain; the most primitive and superstitious Arab of the remotest oases, these are a little more than kin and never less than kind at their worst; whereas in the United States one is almost always conscious of an instinctive lack of sympathy and understanding with even the {4} most charming and cultured people. It was therefore during my exile in America that the doctrines of Lao Tze developed most rapidly in my soul, even forcing their way outwards until I felt it imperious, nay inevitable, to express them in terms of conscious thought.

No sooner had this resolve taken possession of me than I realized that the task approximated to impossibility. His very simplest ideas, the primitive elements of his thought, had no true correspondences in any European terminology. The very first word "Tao" presented a completely insoluble problem. It had been translated "Reason," the "Way," "TO ON." None of these covey the faintest conception of the Tao.

The Tao is "Reason" in this sense, that the substance of things may be in part apprehended as being that necessary relation between the elements of thought which determines the laws of reason. In other words, the only reality is that which compels us to connect the various forms of illusion as we do. It is thus evidently unknowable, and expressible neither by speech nor by silence. All that we can know about it is that there is inherent in it a {5} power (which, however, is not itself) by virtue whereof all beings appear in forms congruous with the nature of necessity.

The Tao is also the Way -- in the following sense. Nothing exists except as a relation with other similarly postulated ideas. Nothing can be known in itself, but only as one of the participants in a series of events. Reality is therefore in the motion, not in the things moved. We cannot apprehend anything except as one postulated element of an observed impression of change. We may express this in other terms as follows. Our knowledge of anything is in reality the sum of our observations of its successive movements, that is to say, of its path from event to event. In this sense the Tao may be translated as the Way. It is not a thing in itself in the sense of being an object susceptible of apprehension by sense or mind. It is not the cause of any thing, but the category underlying all existence or event, and therefore true and real as they are illusory, being merely landmarks invented for convenience in describing our experiences. The Tao possesses no power to cause anything to exist or to take place. Yet our experience when analyzed tells {6} us that the only reality of which we may be sure is this path or Way which resumes the whole of our knowledge.

As for TO ON, which superficially might seem the best translation of Tao as described in the text, it is the most misleading of the three. For TO ON possesses an extensive connotation implying a whole system of Platonic concepts than which nothing can be more alien to the essential quality of the Tao. Tao is neither being nor not-being in any sense which Europe could understand. It is neither existence nor a condition or form of existence. At the same time, TO MH ON gives no idea of Tao. Tao is altogether alien to all that class of thought. From its connection with "that principle which necessarily underlies the fact that events occur" one might suppose that the "Becoming" of Heraclitus might assist us to describe the Tao. But the Tao is not a principle at all of that kind. To understand it requires an altogether different state of mind to any with which European thinkers in general are familiar. It is necessary to pursue unflinchingly the path of spiritual development on the lines indicated by the Sufis, the Hindus and the Buddhists; {7} and having reached the Trance called Nerodha-Sammapati, in which are destroyed all forms soever of consciousness, there appears in that abyss of annihilation the germ of an entirely new type of idea, whose principal characteristic is this: that the entire concatenation of one's previous experiences and conceptions could not have happened at all, save by virtue of this indescribable necessity.

I am only too painfully aware that the above exposition is faulty in every respect. In particular it presupposes in the reader considerable familiarity with the substance, thus practically begging the question. It must also prove almost wholly unintelligible to the average reader, him in fact whom I especially aim to interest. For his sake I will try to elucidate the matter by an analogy. Consider electricity. It would be absurd to say that electricity is any of the phenomena by which we know it. We take refuge in the petitio principii of saying that electricity is that form of energy which is the principle cause of such and such phenomena. Suppose now that we eliminate this idea as evidently illogical. What remains? We must not hastily answer, "Nothing {8} remains." There is some thing inherent in the nature of consciousness, reason, perception, sensation, and of the universe of which they inform us, which is responsible for the fact that we observe these phenomena and not others; that we reflect upon them as we do, and not otherwise. But even deeper than this, part of the reality of the inscrutable energy which determines the form of our experience, consists in determining that experience should take place at all. It should be clear that this has nothing to do with any of the Platonic conceptions of the nature of things.

The least abject asset in the intellectual bankruptcy of European thought is the Hebrew Qabalah. Properly understood it is a system of symbolism infinitely elastic, assuming no axioms, postulating no principles, asserting no theorems, and therefore adaptable, if managed adroitly, to describe any conceivable doctrine. It has been my continual study since 1898, and I have found it of infinite value in the study of the Tao Teh King. By its aid I was able to attribute the ideas of Lao Tze to an order with which I was exceedingly familiar, and whose practical worth I had repeatedly proved by using {9} it as the basis of the analysis and classification of all Aryan and Semitic religions and philosophies. Despite the essential difficulty of correlating the ideas of Lao Tze with any others, the persistent application of the Qabalistic keys eventually unlocked his treasure-house. I was able to explain to myself his teachings in terms of familiar systems.

This achievement broke the back of my Sphinx. Having once reduce Lao Tze to Qabalistic form, it was easy to translate the result into the language of philosophy. I had already done much to create a new language based on English with the assistance of a few technical terms borrowed from Asia, and above all by the use of a novel conception of the idea of Number and algebraic and arithmetical proceedings, to convey the results of spiritual experience to intelligent students.

It is therefore not altogether without confidence that I present this translation of the Tao Teh King to the public. I hope and believe that careful study of the text, as elucidated by my commentary, will enable serious aspirants to the hidden wisdom to understand with fair accuracy what Lao Tze taught. It must however be laid to {10} heart that the essence of his system will inevitably elude intellectual apprehension unless it be illuminated from above by actual living experience of the truth. Such experience is only to be attained by unswerving application to the practices which he advocates. Nor must the aspirant content himself with the mere attainment of spiritual enlightenment, however sublime. All such achievements are barren unless they be regarded as the means rather than the end of spiritual progress, and allowed to infiltrate every detail of the life, not only of the spirit, but of the senses. The Tao can never be known until it interpret the most trivial actions of everyday routine. It is a fatal mistake to discriminate between the spiritual importance of meditation and playing golf. To do so is to create an internal conflict. "Let there be no difference made among you between any one thing & any other thing; for thereby there cometh hurt." He who knows the Tao knows it to be the source of all things soever; the most exalted spiritual ecstasy and the most trivial internal impression are from our point of view equally illusions, worthless masks, which hide, with grotesque painted pasteboard false and lifeless, {11} the living face of truth. Yet, from another point of view, they are equally expressions of the ecstatic genius of truth -- natural images of the reaction between the essence of onesself and one's particular environment at the moment of their occurrence. They are equally tokens of the Tao, by whom, in whom, and of whom, they are. To value them for themselves is deny the Tao and to be lost in delusion. To despise them is to deny the omnipresence of the Tao, and to suffer the illusion of sorrow. To discriminate between them is to set up the accursèd dyad, to permit the insanity of intellect, to overwhelm the intuition of truth, and to create civil war in the consciousness.

From 1908 to 1918, the Tao Teh King was my continual study. I constantly recommended it to my friends as the supreme masterpiece of initiated wisdom, and I was as constantly disappointed when they declared that it did not impress them, especially as my preliminary descriptions of the book had aroused their keenest interest. I thus came to see that the fault lay with Legge's translation, and I felt myself impelled to undertake the {12} task of presenting Lao Tze in language informed by the sympathetic understanding which initiation and spiritual experience had conferred on me. During my Great Magical Retirement on Aesopus Island in the Hudson River during the summer of 1918, I set myself to this work, but I discovered immediately that I was totally incompetent. I therefore appealed to an Adept named Amalantrah, with whom I was at that time in almost daily communion. He came readily to my aid and exhibited to me a codex of the original, which conveyed to me with absolute certitude the exact significance of the text. I was able to divine without hesitation or doubt the precise manner in which Legge had been deceived. He had translated the Chinese with singular fidelity, yet in almost every verse the interpretation was altogether misleading. There was no need to refer to the text from the point of view of scholarship. I had merely to paraphrase his translation in the light of actual knowledge of the true significance of the terms employed. Anyone who cares to take the trouble to compare the two versions will be astounded to see how slight a remodeling of a paragraph is sufficient to disperse the obstinate {13} obscurity of prejudice, and let loose a fountain and a flood of living light, to kindle the gnarled prose of stolid scholarship into the burgeoning blossom of lyrical flame.

I completed my translation within three days, but during the last five years I have constantly reconsidered every sentence. The manuscript has been lent to a number of friends, scholars who have commended my work, and aspirants who have appreciated its adequacy to present the spirit of the Master's teaching. Those who had been disappointed with Legge's version were enthusiastic about mine. This circumstance is in itself sufficient to assure me that Love's labour has not been lost, and to fill me with enthusiastic confidence that the present publication will abundantly contribute to the fulfillment of my True Will for which I came to earth, and wring labour and sorrow to the utmost of which humanity is capable, the Will to open the portals of spiritual attainment to my fellow men, and bring them to the enjoyment of that realisation of Truth, beneath all veils of temporal falsehood, which has enlightened mine eyes and filled my mouth with song.

CHAPTER I

THE NATURE OF THE TAO.

1. The Tao-Path is not the All-Tao. The Name is not the Thing named.

2. Unmanifested, it is the Secret Father of

           __________             ____ ____
    Heaven __________  and Earth  ____ ____
           __________             ____ ____;
manifested, it is their Mother.

3. To understand this Mystery, one must be fulfilling one's will, and if one is not thus free, one will but gain a smattering of it.

4. The Tao is one, and the Teh but a phase thereof. The abyss of this Mystery is the Portal of Serpent-Wonder.

[WEH NOTE: Footnote #2 above, extended here. In the original each of the eleven places is enclosed in a circle for one of the ten Sephiroth and Da'at. This chart presents problems. Crowley did not properly draw the trigrams, but mostly with unbroken lines. He also appears to have written in the wrong names for some of the Trigrams. These difficulties have been corrected by reference to the diagram Crowley made on the blank page preceding the table of content in his copy of the Legge Yi King. See OTO NEWSLETTER, V. I, No. 3, p. 15.]

                      The Tao
                         .

          The Teh,                 The Tao,
    source of the Mother         source of the                                              
                                    Father
        ____  ____                __________


                       Heaven
                     __________
                     __________
                     __________
                       Ch'ien
            Water                     Fire  
          ____  ____ {had          ____  ____ 
    {water____  ____  Li, this     _________Tui 
    usually_________  is Chen}     __________ 
    is K'an}           

                                       
                        Sun
                     __________ {had Chen,
                     ____  ____  this is Li}
                     __________

                          Sun  
              
         __________              __________
     Air __________              ____  ____ Earth
         ____  ____              ____  ____ Ken
     

                        Moon
                     ____  ____
                     __________ K'an
                     ____  ____
     


                        Earth
                     ____  ____
                     ____  ____ K'un
                     ____  ____
     {1}
CHAPTER II

THE ENERGY - SOURCE OF THE SELF.

1. All men know that beauty and ugliness are correlatives, as are skill and clumsiness; one implies and suggests the other.

2. So also existence and non-existence pose the one the other; so also is it with ease and difficulty, length and shortness; height and lowness. Also Musick exists through harmony of opposites; time and space depend upon contraposition.

3. By the use of this method, the sage can fulfil his will without action, and utter his word without speech.

4. All things arise without diffidence; they grow, and none interferes; they change according to their natural order, without lust of result. The work is accomplished; yet continueth in its orbit, without goal. This work is done unconsciously; this is {2} why its energy is indefatigable.

{3}

CHAPTER III

QUIETING FOLK.

1. To reward merit is to stir up emulation; to prize rarities is to encourage robbery; to display desirable things is to excite the disorder of covetousness.

2. Therefore, the sage governeth men by keeping their minds and their bodies at rest, contenting the one by emptiness, the other by fullness. He satisfieth their desires, thus fulfilling their wills, and making them frictionless; and he maketh them strong in body, to a similar end.

3. He delivereth them from the restlessness of knowledge and the cravings of discontent. As to those who have knowledge already, he teacheth them the way of non-action. This being assured, there is no disorder in the world. {4}

CHAPTER IV

THE SPRING WITHOUT SOURCE.

1. The Tao resembleth the emptiness of Space; to employ it, we must avoid creating ganglia. Oh Tao, how vast art Thou, the Abyss of Abysses, thou Holy and Secret Father of all Fatherhoods of Things!

2. Let us make our sharpness blunt; let us loosen our complexes; let us tone down our brightness to the general obscurity. Oh Tao, how still art thou, how pure, continuous One beyond Heaven!

3. This Tao hath no Father; it is beyond all other conceptions, higher than the highest. {5}

CHAPTER V

THE FORMULA OF THE VACUUM.

1. Heaven and earth proceed without motive, but casually in their order of nature, dealing with all things carelessly, like used talismans. So also the sages deal with their people, not exercising benevolence, but allowing the nature of all to move without friction.

2. The Space between heaven and earth is their breathing apparatus: Exhalation is not exhaustion, but the complement of Inhalation, and this equally of that. Speech exhausteth; guard thyself, therefore, maintaining the perfect freedom of thy nature. {6}

CHAPTER VI

THE PERFECTING OF FORM.

1. The Teh is the immortal enemy of the Tao, its feminine aspect. Heaven and Earth issued from her Gate; this Gate is the Root of their World-Sycamore. Its operation is of pure Joy and Love, and faileth never. {7}

CHAPTER VII

THE CONCEALMENT OF THE LIGHT.

1. Heaven and Earth are mighty in continuance, because their work is delivered from the lust of result.

2. Thus also the sage, seeking not any goal, attaineth all things; he doth not interfere in the affairs of his body, and so that body acteth without friction. It is because he meddleth not with personal aims that these come to pass with simplicity. {8}

CHAPTER VIII

THE NATURE OF PEACE.

1. Admire thou the High Way of Water! Is not Water the soul of the life of things, whereby they change? Yet it seeketh its level, and abideth content in obscurity. So also it resembleth the Tao, in this Way thereof!

2. The virtue of a house is to be well-placed; of the mind, to be at ease in silence as of Space; of societies, to be well-disposed; of governments, to maintain quietude; of work, to be skillfully performed; and of all motion, to be made at the right time.

3. Also it is the virtue of a man to abide in his place without discontent; thus offendeth he no man. {9}

CHAPTER IX

THE WAY OF RETICENCE.

1. Fill not a vessel, lest it spill in carrying. Meddle not with a sharpened point by feeling it constantly, or it will soon become blunted.

2. Gold and jade endanger the house of their possessor. Wealth and honors lead to arrogance and envy, and bring ruin. Is thy way famous and thy name becoming distinguished? Withdraw, thy work once done, into obscurity; this is the way of Heaven. {10}

CHAPTER X

THINGS ATTAINABLE.

1. When soul and body are in the bond of love, they can be kept together. By concentration on the breath it is brought to perfect elasticity, and one becomes as a babe. By purifying oneself from Samadhi one becomes whole.

2. In his dealing with individuals and with society, let him move without lust of result. In the management of his breath, let him be like the mother-bird. Let his intelligence comprehend every quarter; but let his knowledge cease.

3. Here is the Mystery of Virtue. It createth all and nourisheth all; yet it doth not adhere to them; it operateth all, but knoweth not of it, nor proclaimeth it; it directeth all, but without conscious control. {11}

CHAPTER XI

THE VALUE OF THE UNEXPRESSED.

1. The thirty spokes join in their nave, that is one; yet the wheel dependeth for use upon the hollow place for the axle. Clay is shapen to make vessels; but the contained space is what is useful. Matter is therefore of use only to mark the limits of the space which is the thing of real value. {12}

CHAPTER XII

THE WITHDRAWAL FROM THE EXTERNAL.

1. The five colors film over Sight; The five sounds make Hearing dull; The five flavours conceal Taste; occupation with motion and action bedevil Mind; even so the esteem of rare things begetteth covetousness and disorder.

2. The wise man seeketh therefore to content the actual needs of the people; not to excite them by the sight of luxuries. He banneth these, and concentrateth on those. {13}

CHAPTER XIII

THE CONTEMPT FOR CIRCUMSTANCE.

1. Favor and disgrace are equally to be shunned; honour and calamity to be alike regarded as adhering to the personality.

2. What is this which is written concerning favour and disgrace? Disgrace is the fall from favour. He then that hath favour hath fear, and its loss begetteth fear yet greater of a further fall. What is this which is written concerning honour and calamity? It is this attachment to the body which maketh calamity possible; for were one bodiless, what evil could befall him?

3. Therefore let him that regardeth himself rightly administer also a kingdom; and let him govern it who loveth it as another man loveth himself. {14}

CHAPTER XIV

THE SHEWING-FORTH OF THE MYSTERY.

1. We look at it, and see it not; though it is Omnipresent; and we name it the Root-Balance.
We listen for it, and hear it not, though it is Omniscient; and we name it the Silence.
We feel for it, and touch it not, though it is Omnipotent; and we name it the Concealed.
These three Virtues hath it, yet we cannot describe it as consisting of them; but, mingling them aright, we apprehend the One.

2. Above, it shineth not; below, it is not dark. It moveth all continuously, without Expression, returning into Naught. It is the Form of That which is beyond Form; it is the Image of the Invisible; it is Change, and Without Limit.

3. We confront it, and see not its Face; {15} we pursue it, and its Back is hidden from us. Ah! but apply the Tao as in old Time to the work of the present; know it as it was known in the Beginning; follow fervently the Thread of the Tao. {16}

CHAPTER XV

THE APPEARANCE OF THE TRUE NATURE.

1. The adepts of past ages were subtle and keen to apprehend this Mystery, and their profundity was obscurity unto men. Since then they were not known, let me declare their nature.

2. To all seeming, they were fearful as men that cross a torrent in winter flood; they were hesitating like a man in apprehension of them that are about him; they were full of awe like a guest in a great house; they were ready to disappear like ice in thaw; they were unassuming like unworked wood; they were empty as a valley; and dull as the waters of a marsh.

3. Who can clear muddy water? Stillness will accomplish this. Who can obtain rest? Let motion continue equably, and it will itself be peace.

4. The adepts of the Tao, conserving its way, seek not to be actively self-conscious. By their emptiness of Self {17} they have no need to show their youth and perfection; to appear old and imperfect is their privilege. {18}

CHAPTER XVI

THE WITHDRAWAL TO THE ROOT.

1. Emptiness must be perfect, and Silence made absolute with tireless strength. All things pass through the period of action; then they return to repose. They grow, bud, blossom and fruit; then they return to the root. This return to the root is this state which we name Silence; and this Silence is Witness of their Fulfilment.

2. This cycle is the universal law. To know it is the part of intelligence; to ignore it bringeth folly of action, whereof the end is madness. To know it bringeth understanding and peace; and these lead to the identification of the Self with the Not-Self. This identification maketh man a king; and this kingliness groweth unto godhood. That godhood beareth fruit in the mastery of the Tao. Then the man, the Tao permeating him, endureth; and his bodily principles are in harmony, {19} proof against decay, until the hour of his Change. {20}

CHAPTER XVII

THE PURITY OF THE CURRENT.

1. In the Age of Gold, the people were not conscious of their rulers; in the Age of Silver, they loved them, with songs; in the Age of Brass, they feared them; in the Age of Iron, they despised them. As the rulers lost confidence, so also did the people lose confidence in them.

2. How hesitating did they seem, the Lords of the Age of Gold, speaking with deliberation, aware of the weight of their word! Thus they accomplished all things with success; and the people deemed their well-being to be the natural course of events. {21}

CHAPTER XVIII

THE DECAY OF MANNERS.

1. When men abandoned the Way of the Tao, benevolence and justice became necessary. Then also was need of wisdom and cunning, and all fell into illusion. When harmony ceased to prevail in the six spheres it was needful to govern them by manifesting Sons.

When the kingdoms and races became confused, loyal ministers had to appear. {22}

CHAPTER XIX

RETURNING TO THE PURITY OF THE CURRENT.

1. If we forgot our statesmanship and our wisdom, it would be an hundred times better for the people. If we forgot our benevolence and our justice, they would become again like sons, folk of good will. If we forget our machines and our business, there would be no knavery.

2. These new methods despised the olden Way, inventing fine names to disguise their baneness. But simplicity in the doing of the will of every man would put an end to vain ambitions and desires. {23}

CHAPTER XX

THE WITHDRAWAL FROM THE COMMON WAY.

1. To forget learning is to end trouble. The smallest difference in words, such as "yes" and "yea", can make endless controversy for the scholar. Fearful indeed is death, since all men fear it; but the abyss of questionings, shoreless and bottomless, is worse!

2. Consider the profane man, how he preeneth, as if at feast, or gazing upon Spring from a tower! But as for me, I am as one who yawneth, without any trace of desire. I am like a babe before its first smile. I appear sad and forlorn, like a man homeless. The profane man hath his need filled, ay, and more also. For me, I seem to have lost all I had. My mind is as it were stupefied; it hath no definite shape. The profane man looketh lively and keen-witted; I alone appear blank in my mind. They seem eagerly critical; I appear careless and without perception. I seem to be as one adrift upon the sea, with {24} no thought of an harbor. The profane have each one his definite course of action; I alone appear useless and uncomprehending, like a man from the border. Yea, thus I differ from all other men: but my jewel is the All-Mother! {25}

CHAPTER XXI

THE INFINITE WOMB.

1. The sole source of energy is the Tao. Who may declare its nature? It is beyond Sense, yet all form is hidden within it. It is beyond Sense, yet all Perceptibles are hidden within it. It is beyond Sense, yet all Perceptibles are hidden within it. It is beyond Sense, yet all Being is hidden within it. This Being excites Perception, and the Word thereof. As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, its Name operateth continuously, causing all to flow in the cycle of Change, which is Love and Beauty. How do I know this? By my comprehension of the Tao. {26}

CHAPTER XXII

THE GUERDON OF MODESTY.

1. The part becometh the whole. The curve becometh straight; the void becometh full; the old becometh new. He who desireth little accomplisheth his Will with ease; who desireth many things becometh distracted.

2. Therefore, the sage concentrateth upon one Will, and it is as a light to the whole world. Hiding himself, he shineth; withdrawing himself, he attracteth notice; humbling himself, he is exalted; dissatisfied with himself, he gaineth force to achieve his Will. Because he striveth not, no man may contend against him.

3. That is no idle saw of the men of old; "The part becometh the whole"; it is the Canon of Perfection. {27}

CHAPTER XXIII

THE VOID OF NAUGHT.

1. To keep silence is the mark of one who is acting in full accordance with his Will. A fierce wind soon falleth; a storm-shower doth not last all day. Yet Heaven and Earth cause these; and if they fail to make violence continue, how much less can man abide in spasm of passion!

2. With him that devoteth him to Tao, the devotees of Tao are in accord; so also are the devotees of Teh, yea, even they who fail in seeking those are in accord.

3. So then his brothers in the Tao are joyful, attaining it; and his brothers in the Teh are joyful, attaining it; and they who fail in seeking these are joyful, partaking of it. But if he himself realize not the Tao with calm of confidence, then they also appear lacking in confidence. {28}

CHAPTER XXIV

EVIL MANNERS.

1. He who standeth a-tiptoe standeth not firm; he who maketh rigid his legs walketh ill. He who preeneth himself shineth not; he who talketh positively is vulgar; he who boastheth is refused acceptance; he who is wise in his own conceit is thought inferior. Such attitudes, to him that hath the view given by understanding the Tao, seem like garbage or like cancer, abhorrent to all. They then who follow the Way do not admit them. {29}

CHAPTER XXV

IMAGES OF THE MYSTERY.

1. Without Limit and Perfect, there is a Becoming, beyond Heaven and Earth. It hath nor motion nor Form; it is alone, it changeth not; it extendeth all ways; it hath no Adversary. It is like the All-Mother.

2. I know not its Name, but I call it the Tao. Moreover, I exert myself, and call it Vastness.

3. Vastness, the Becoming! Becoming, it flieth afar. Afar, it draweth near. Vast is this Tao; Heaven also is Vast; Earth is vast; and the Holy King is vast also. In the Universe are Four Vastnesses, and of these is the Holy King.

4. Man followeth the formula of Earth; Earth followeth that of Heaven, and Heaven that of the Tao. The formula of the Tao is its own Nature. {30}

CHAPTER XXVI

THE NATURE OF MASS.

1. Mass is the fulcrum of mobility; stillness is the father of motion.

2. Therefore the sage King, though he travel afar, remaineth near his supplies. Though opportunity tempt him, he remaineth quietly in proper disposition, indifferent. Should the master of an host of chariots bear himself frivolously? If he attack without support, he loseth his base; if he become a raider, he forfeiteth his throne. {31}

CHAPTER XXVII

SKILL IN THE METHOD.

1. The experienced traveler concealeth his tracks; the clever speaker giveth no chance to the critic; the skilled mathematician useth no abacus; the ingenious safesmith baffleth the burglar without the use of bolts, and the cunning binder without ropes and knots. So also the sage, skilled in man-emancipation-craft, useth all men; understanding the value of everything, he rejecteth nothing. This is called the Occult Regimen.

2. The adept is then master to the zelator, and the zelator assisteth and honoreth the adept. Yet unless these relations were manifest, even the most intelligent observer might be perplexed as to which was which. This is called the Crown of Mystery. {32}

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE RETURN TO SIMPLICITY.

1. Balance thy male strength with thy female weakness and thou shalt attract all things, as the ocean absorbeth all rivers; for thou shalt formulate the excellence of the Child eternal, simple, and perfect.

Knowing the light, remain in the Dark. Manifest not thy Glory, but thine obscurity. Clothed in this Child-excellence eternal, thou hast attained the Return of the First State. Knowing splendour of Fame, cling to Obloquy and Infamy; then shalt thou remain as in the Valley to which flow all waters, the lodestone to fascinate all men. Yea, they shall hail in thee this Excellence, eternal, simple and perfect, of the Child.

2. The raw material, wrought into form, produceth vessels. So the sage King formulateth his Wholeness in divers Offices; and his Law is without violence or constraint. {33}

CHAPTER XXIX

REFRAINING FROM ACTION.

1. He that, desiring a kingdom, exerteth himself to obtain it, will fail. A Kingdom is of the nature of spirit, and yieldeth not to activity. He who graspeth it, destroyeth it; he who gaineth it, loseth it.

2. The wheel of nature revolveth constantly; the last becometh first, and the first last; hot things grow cold, and cold things hot; weakness overcometh strength; things gained are lost anon. Hence the wise man avoideth effort, desire and sloth. {34}

CHAPTER XXX

A WARNING AGAINST WAR.

1. If a king summon to his aid a Master of the Tao, let Him not advise recourse to arms. Such action certainly bringeth the corresponding reaction.

2. Where armies are, are weeds. Bad harvests follow great hosts.

3. The good general striketh decisively, once and for all. He does not risk by overboldness. He striketh, but doth not vaunt his victory. He striketh according to strict law of necessity, not from desire of victory.

4. Things become strong and ripe, then age. This is discord with the Tao; and what is not at one with the Tao soon cometh to an end. {35}

CHAPTER XXXI

COMPOSING QUARREL.

1. Arms, though they be beautiful, are of ill omen, abominable to all created beings. They who have the Tao love not their use.

2. The place of honour is on the right in wartime; so thinketh the man of distinction. Sharp weapons are ill-omened, unworthy of such a man; he useth them only in necessity. He valueth peace and ease, desireth not violence of victory. To desire victory is to desire the death of men; and to desire that is to fail to propitiate the people.

3. At feasts, the left hand is the high seat; at funerals, the right. The second in command of the army leadeth the left wing, the commander-in-chief, the right wing; it is as if the battle were a rite of mourning! He that hath slain most men should weep for them most bitterly; so then the place of the victor is assigned to him with philosophical propriety. {36}

CHAPTER XXXII

THE WISDOM OF TEH.

1. The All-Tao hath no name.

2. It is That Minute Point yet the whole world dare not contend against him that hath it. Did a lord or king gain it and guard it, all men would obey him of their own accord.

3. Heaven and Earth combining under its spell, shed forth dew, extending throughout all things of its own accord, without man's interference.

4. Tao, in its phase of action, hath a name. Then men can comprehend it; when they do this, there is no more risk of wrong or ill-success.

5. As the great rivers and the oceans are to the valley streams, so is the Tao to the whole universe. {37}

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE DISCRIMINATION (VIVEKA) OF TEH.

1. He who understandeth others understandeth Two; but he who understandeth himself understandeth One. He who conquereth others is strong; but he who conquereth himself is stronger yet.
Contentment is riches; and continuous action is Will.

2. He that adapteth himself perfectly to his environment, continueth for long; he who dieth without dying, liveth for ever. {38}

CHAPTER XXXIV

THE METHOD OF ATTAINMENT.

1. The Tao is immanent; it extendeth to the right hand as to the left.

2. All things derive from it their being; it createth them, and all comply with it. Its work is done, and it proclaimeth it not. It is the ornament of all things, yet it claimeth not fief of them; there is nothing so small that it inhabiteth not, and informeth it.

All things return without knowledge of the Cause thereof; there is nothing so great that it inhabiteth not, and informeth it.

3. In this manner also may the Sage perform his Works. It is by not thrusting himself forward that he winneth to his success. {39}

CHAPTER XXXV

THE GOOD WILL OF THE TEH.

1. The whole world is drawn to him that hath the likeness of the Tao. Men flock unto him, and suffer no ill, but gain repose, find peace, enjoy all ease.

2. Sweet sounds and cates lure the traveler from his way. But the Word of the Tao; though it appear harsh and insipid, unworthy to hearken or to behold; hath his use all inexhaustible. {40}

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE HIDING OF THE LIGHT.

1. In order to draw breath, first empty the lungs; to weaken another, first strengthen him; to overthrow another, first exalt him; to despoil another, first load him with gifts; this is called the Occult Regimen.

2. The soft conquereth the hard; the weak pulleth down the strong.

3. The fish that leaveth ocean is lost; the method of government must be concealed from the people. {41}

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE RIGHT USE OF GOVERNMENT.

1. The Tao proceedeth by its own nature, doing nothing; therefore there is no doing which it comprehendeth not.

2. If kings and princes were to govern in this manner, all things would operate aright by their own motion.

3. If this transmutation were my object, I should call it Simplicity. Simplicity hath no name nor purpose; silently and at ease all things go well. {42}

PART II

CHAPTER XXXVIII

CONCERNING THE TEH.

1. Those who possessed perfectly the powers did not manifest them, and so they preserved them. Those who possessed them imperfectly feared to lose them, and so lost them.

2. The former did nothing, nor had need to do. The latter did, and had need to do.

3. Those who possessed benevolence exercised it, and had need it; so also was it with them who possessed justice.

4. Those who possessed the conventions displayed them; and when men would not agree, they made ready to fight them.

5. Thus, when the Tao was lost, the Magick Powers appeared; then, by successive degradations, came Benevolence, Justice, Convention. {43}

6. Now convention is the shadow of loyalty and good will, and so the herald of disorder. Yea, even Understanding is but a Blossom of the Tao, and foreshadoweth Stupidity.

7. So then the Tao-Man holdeth to Mass, and avoideth Motion; he is attached to the Root, not to the flower. He leaveth the one, and cleaveth to the other. {44}

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE LAW OF THE BEGINNING.

1. These things have possessed the Tao from the beginning: Heaven, clear and shining; Earth, steady and easy; Spirits, mighty in Magick; Vehicles, overflowing with Joy; all that hath life; and the rulers of men. All these derive their essence from the Tao.

2. Without the Tao, Heaven would dissolve Earth disrupt, Spirits become impotent; Vehicles empty; living things would perish and rulers lose their power.

3. The root of grandeur is humility, and the strength of exaltation in its base. Thus rulers speak of themselves as "Fatherless," "Virtueless,' "Unworthy," proclaiming by this that their Glory is in their shame. So also the virtue of a Chariot is not any of the parts of a Chariot, if they be numbered. They do not seek to appear fine like jade, but inconspicuous like common stone. {45}

CHAPTER XL

OMITTING UTILITY.

1. The Tao proceeds by correlative curves, and its might is in weakness.

2. All things arose from the Teh, and the Teh budded from the Tao. {46}

CHAPTER XLI

THE IDENTITY OF THE DIFFERENTIAL.

1. The best students, learning of the Tao, set to work earnestly to practice the Way. Mediocre students now cherish it, now let it go.

The worst students mock at it. Were it not thus mocked, it were unworthy to be Tao.

2. Thus spake the makers of Saws: the Tao at its brightest is obscure. Who advanceth in that Way, retireth. Its smooth Way is rough. Its summit is a valley. Its beauty is ugliness. Its wealth is poverty. Its virtue, vice. Its stability is change. Its form is without form. Its fullness is vacancy. Its utterance is silence. Its reality is illusion.

3. Nameless and imperceptible is the Tao; but it informeth and perfecteth all things. {47}

CHAPTER XLII

THE VEILS OF THE TAO.

1. The Tao formulated the One.
The One exhaled the Two.
The Two were parents of the Three.
The Three were parents of all things.
All things pass from Obscurity to Manifestation, inspired harmoniously by the Breath of the Void.

2. Men do not like to be fatherless, virtueless, unworthy: yet rulers describe themselves by these names. Thus increase bringeth decrease to some, and decrease bringeth increase to others.

3. Others have taught thus; I consent to it. Violent men and strong die not by natural death. This fact is the foundation of my law. {48}

CHAPTER XLIII

THE COSMIC METHOD.

1. The softest substance hunteth down the hardest; the unsubstantial penetrateth where there is no opening. Here is the Virtue of Inertia.

2. Few are they who attain: whose speech is Silence, whose Work is Inertia. {49}

CHAPTER XLIV

MONITORIAL.

1. What shall it profit a man if he gain fame or wealth, and lose his life?

2. If a man cling to fame or wealth, he risketh what is worth more.

3. Be content, not fearing disgrace. Act not, and risk not criticism. Thus live thou long, without alarm. {50}

CHAPTER XLV

THE OVERFLOWING OF TEH.

1. Despise thy masterpieces; thus renew the vigor of thy creation.
Deem thy fullness emptiness; thus shall thy fullness never be empty.
Let the straight appear crooked to thee, thy Craft clumsiness; thy Musick discord.

2. Exercise moderateth cold; stillness heat. To be pure and to keep silence, is the True Law of all that are beneath Heaven. {51}

CHAPTER XLVI

THE WITHDRAWAL FROM AMBITION.

1. When the Tao beareth away on Earth, men put swift horses to night-carts. When it is neglected, they breed chargers in the border marches.

2. There is no evil worse than ambition; no misery worse than discontent; no crime greater than greed. Content of mind is peace and satisfaction eternal. {52}

CHAPTER XLVII

THE VISION OF THE DISTANT.

1. One need not pass his threshold to comprehend all that is under Heaven, nor to look out from his lattice to behold the Tao Celestial. Nay! but the farther a man goeth, the less he knoweth.

2. The sages acquired their knowledge without travel; they named all things aright without beholding them; and, acting without aim, fulfilled their Wills. {53}

CHAPTER XLVIII

OBLIVION OVERCOMING KNOWLEDGE.

1. The scholar seeketh daily increase of knowing; the sage of Tao daily decrease of doing.

2. He decreaseth it, again and again, until he doth no act with the lust of result. Having attained this Inertia all accomplisheth itself.

3. He who attracteth to himself all that is under Heaven doth so without effort. He who maketh effort is not able to attract it. {54}

CHAPTER XLIX

THE ADAPTABILITY OF THE TEH.

1. The wise man hath no fixed principle; he adapteth his mind to his environment.

2. To the good I am good, and to the evil I am good also; thus all become good. To the true I am true, and to the false I am true; thus all become true.

3. The sage appeareth hesitating to the world, because his mind is detached. Therefore the people look and listen to him, as his children; and thus doth he shepherd them. {53}

CHAPTER L

THE ESTIMATION OF LIFE.

1. Man cometh into life, and returneth again into death.

2. Three men in ten conserve life; three men in ten pursue death.

3. Three men also in ten desire to live, but their acts hasten their journey to the house of death. Why is this? Because of their efforts to preserve life.

4. But this I have heard. He that is wise in the economy of his life, whereof he is warden for a season, journeyeth with no need to avoid the tiger or the rhinoceros, and goeth uncorsleted among the warriors with no fear of sword or lance. The rhinoceros findeth in him no place vulnerable to its horn, the tiger to its claws, the weapon to its point. Why is this? Because there is no house of death in his whole body. {56}

CHAPTER LI

THE TEH AS THE NURSE.

1. All things proceed from the Tao, and are sustained by its forth-flowing virtue. Every one taketh form according to his nature, and is perfect, each in his particular Way. Therefore, each and every one of them glorify the Tao, and worship its forth-flowing Virtue.

2. This glorifying of the Tao, this worship of the Teh, is constantly spontaneous, and not by appointment of Law.

3. Thus the Tao buddeth them out, nurtureth them, developeth them, sustaineth them, perfecteth them, ripeneth them, upholdeth them, and reabsorbeth them.

4. It buddeth them forth, and claimeth not lordship over them; it is overseer of their changes, and boasteth not of his puissance; perfecteth them, and interfereth not with their Ways; this is called the Mystery of its Virtue. {57}

CHAPTER LII

THE WITHDRAWAL INTO THE SILENCE.

1. The Tao buddeth forth all things under Heaven; it is the Mother of all.

2. Knowing the Mother, we may know her offspring. He that knoweth his Mother, and abideth in Her nature, remaineth in surety all his days.

3. With the mouth closed, and the Gates of Breath controlled, he remaineth at ease all his days. With the mouth open, and the Breath directed to outward affairs, he hath no surety all his days.

4. To perceive that Minute Point is True Vision; to maintain the Soft and Gentle is True Strength.

5. Employing harmoniously the Light Within so that it returneth to its Origin, one guardeth even one's body from evil, and keepeth Silence before all men. {58}

CHAPTER LIII

THE WITNESS OF GREED.

1. Were I discovered by men, and charged with government, my first would be lest I should become proud.

2. The true Path is level and smooth; but men love by-paths.

3. They adorn their courts, but they neglect their fields, and leave their storehouses empty. They wear elaborate and embroidered robes; they gird themselves with sharp swords; they eat and drink with luxury; they heap up goods; they are thievish and vainglorious. All this is opposite to the Way of Tao. {59}

CHAPTER LIV

THE WITNESS OF WISDOM.

1. If a man plant according to the Tao it will never be uprooted; if he thus gather, it will never be lost. His sons and his son's sons, one following another, shall honour the shrine of their ancestor.

2. The Tao, applied to oneself, strengtheneth the Body, to the family, bringeth wealth; to the district, prosperity; to the state, great fortune. Let it be the Law of the Kingdom, and all men will increase in virtue.

3. Thus we observe its effect in every case, as to the person, the family, the district, the state, and the kingdom.

4. How do I know that this is thus universal under Heaven?
By experience. {60}

CHAPTER LV

THE SPELL OF THE MYSTERY.

1. He that hath the Magick powers of the Tao is like a young child. Insects will not sting him or beasts or birds of prey attack him.

2. The young child's bones are tender and its sinews are elastic, but its grasp is firm. It knoweth nothing of the Union of Man and Woman, yet its Organ may be excited. This is because of its natural perfection. It will cry all day long without becoming hoarse, because of the harmony of its being.

3. He who understandeth this harmony knoweth the mystery of the Tao, and becometh a True Sage. All devices for inflaming life, and increasing the vital Breath, by mental effort are evil and factitious.

4. Things become strong, then age. This is in discord with the Tao, and what is not at one with the Tao soon cometh to an end. {61}

CHAPTER LVI

THE EXCELLENCE OF THE MYSTERY.

1. Who knoweth the Tao keepeth Silence; he who babbleth knoweth it not.

2. Who knoweth it closeth his mouth and controlleth the Gates of his Breath. He will make his sharpness blunt; he will loosen his complexes; he will tone down his brightness to the general obscurity. This is called the Secret of Harmony.

3. He cannot be insulted either by familiarity or aversion; he is immune to ideas of gain or loss, of honour or disgrace; he is the true man, unequalled under Heaven. {62}

CHAPTER LVII

THE TRUE INFLUENCE.

1. One may govern a state by restriction; weapons may be used with skill and cunning; but one acquireth true command only by freedom, given and taken.

2. How am I aware of this? By experience that to multiply restrictive laws in the kingdom impoverisheth the people; the use of machines causeth disorder in state and race alike. The more men use skill and cunning, the more machines there are; and the more laws there are, the more felons there are.

3. A wise man has said this: I will refrain from doing, and the people will act rightly of their own accord; I will love Silence, and the people will instinctively turn to perfection; I will take no measures, and the people will enjoy true wealth; I will restrain ambition, and the people will attain simplicity. {63}

CHAPTER LVIII

ADAPTATION TO ENVIRONMENT.

1. The government that exerciseth the least care serveth the people best; that which meddleth with everybody's business worketh all manner of harm. Sorrow and joy are bedfellows; who can divine the final result of either?

2. Shall we avoid restriction? Yea; restriction distorteth nature, so that even what seemeth good in it is evil. For how long have men suffered from misunderstanding of this.

3. The wise man is foursquare, and avoideth aggression; his corners do not injure others. He moveth in a straight line and turneth not aside therefrom; he is brilliant but doth not blind with his brightness. {64}

CHAPTER LIX

WARDING THE TAO.

1. To balance our earthly nature and cultivate our heavenly nature, tread the Middle Path.

2. This Middle Path alone leadeth to the Timely Return to the True Nature. This Timely Return resulteth from the constant gathering of Magick Powers. With that Gathering cometh Control. This Control we know to be without Limit and he who knoweth the Limitless may rule the state.

3. He who possesseth the Tao continueth long. He is like a plant with well-set roots and strong stems. Thus it secureth long continuance of its life. {65}

CHAPTER LX

THE DUTY OF GOVERNMENT.

1. The government of a kingdom is like the cooking of fish.

2. If the kingdom be ruled according to the Tao, the spirits of our ancestors will not manifest their Teh. These spirits have this Teh, but will not turn it against men. It is able to hurt men; so also is the Wise King; but he doth not.

3. When these powers are in accord, their Good Will produceth the Teh, endowing the people therewith. {66}

CHAPTER LXI

THE MODESTY OF THE TEH.

1. A state becometh powerful when it resembleth a great river, deep-seated; to it tend all the small streams under Heaven.

2. It is as with the female, that conquereth the male by her Silence. Silence is a form of Gravity.

3. Thus a great state attracteth small states by meeting their views, and small states attract the great state by revering its eminence. In the first case this Silence gaineth supporters; in the second, favour.

4. The great state uniteth men and nurtureth them; the small state wisheth the good will of the great, and offereth service; thus each gaineth its advantage. But the great state must keep Silence. {67}

CHAPTER LXII

THE WORKINGS OF THE TAO.

1. The Tao is the most exalted of all things. It is the ornament of the good, and the protection and purification of the evil.

2. Its words are the fountain of honour, and its deeds the engine of achievement. It is present even in evil.

3. Though the Son of Heaven were enthroned with his three Dukes appointed to serve him, and he were offered a round symbol- of-rank as great as might fill the hands, with a team of horses to follow, this gift were not to be matched against the Tao, which might be offered by the humblest of men.

4. Why did they of old time set such store by the Tao? Because he that sought it might find it, and because it was the Purification from all evil. Therefore did all men under Heaven esteem it the most exalted of all things. {68}

CHAPTER LXIII

FORETHOUGHT AT THE OUTSET.

1. Act without lust of result; work without anxiety; taste without attachment to flavour; esteem small things great and few things many; repel violence with gentleness.

2. Do great things while they are yet small, hard things while they are yet easy; for all things, how great or hard soever, have a beginning when they are little and easy. So thus the wise man accomplisheth the greatest tasks without undertaking anything important.

3. Who undertaketh thoughtlessly is certain to fail in attainment; who estimateth things easy findeth them hard. The wise man considereth even easy things hard, so that even hard things are easy to him. {69}

CHAPTER LXIV

ATTENDING TO DETAILS.

1. It is easy to grasp what is not yet in motion, to withstand what is not yet manifest, to break what is not yet compact, to disperse what is not yet coherent. Act against things before they become visible; attend to order before disorder ariseth.

2. The tree which filleth the embrace grew from a small shoot; the tower nine-storied rose from a low foundation; the ten-day journey began with a single step.

3. He who acteth worketh harm; he who graspeth findeth it a slip. The wise man acteth not, so worketh no harm; he doth not grasp, and so doth not let go. Men often ruin their affairs on the eve of success, because they are not as prudent at the end as in the beginning.

4. The wise man willeth what others do not will, and valueth not things rare. He learneth what others learn not, and gathered up what they despise. Thus he is in accord with the natural course of events, and is not overbold in action. {70}

CHAPTER LXV

THE PURITY OF THE TEH.

1. They of old time that were skilled in the Tao sought not to enlighten the people, but to keep them simple.

2. The difficulty of government is the vain knowledge of the people. To use cleverness in government is to scourge the kingdom; to use simplicity is to anoint it.

3. Know these things, and make them thy law and thine example. To possess this Law is the Secret Perfection of rule. Profound and Extended is this Perfection; he that possesseth it is indeed contrary to the rest, but he attracteth them to full accordance. {71}

CHAPTER LXVI

PUTTING ONE'S SELF LAST.

1. The oceans and the rivers attract the streams by their skill in being lower than they; thus are they masters thereof. So the Wise Man, to be above men, speaketh lowly; and to precede them acteth with humility.

2. Thus, though he be above them, they feel no burden; nor, though he precede them, do they feel insulted.

3. So then do all men delight to honour him, and grow not weary of him. He contendeth not against any man; therefore no man is able to contend against him. {72}

CHAPTER LXVII

THE THREE JEWELS.

1. They say that while this Tao of mine is great, yet it is inferior. This is the proof of its greatness. If it were like anything else, its smallness would have long been known.

2. I have three jewels of price whereto I cleave; gentleness, economy, and humility.

3. That gentleness maketh me courageous, that economy generous, that humility honoured. Men of today abandon gentleness for violence, economy for extravagance, humility for pride: this is death.

4. Gentleness bringeth victory in fight; and holdeth its ground with assurance. Heaven wardeth the gentle man by that same virtue. {73}

CHAPTER LXVIII

ASSIMILATING ONE'S SELF TO HEAVEN.

1. He that is skilled in war maketh no fierce gestures; the most efficient fighter bewareth of anger. He who conquereth refraineth from engaging in battle; he whom men most willingly obey continueth silently with his Work. So it is said: "He is mighty who fighteth not; he ruleth who uniteth with his subjects; he shineth whose will is that of Heaven." {74}

CHAPTER LXIX

THE USE OF THE MYSTERIOUS WAY.

1. A great strategist saith: "I dare not take the offensive. I prefer the defensive. I dare not advance an inch; I prefer to retreat a foot." Place therefore the army where there is no army; prepare for action where there is no engagement; strike where there is no conflict; advance against the enemy where the enemy is not.

2. There is no error so great as to engage in battle without sufficient force. To do so is to risk losing the gentleness which is beyond price. Thus when the lines actually engage, he who regretteth the necessity is the victor. {75}

CHAPTER LXX

THE DIFFICULTY OF RIGHT APPREHENSION.

1. My words are easy to understand and to perform; but is there anyone in the world who can understand them and perform them?

2. My words derive from a creative and universal Principle, in accord with the One Law. Men, not knowing these, understand me not.

3. Few are they that understand me; therefore am I the more to be valued. The Wise Man weareth sack-cloth, but guardeth his jewel in his bosom. {76}

CHAPTER LXXI

THE DISTEMPER OF KNOWLEDGE.

1. To know, yet to know nothing, is the highest; not to know, yet to pretend to knowledge, is a distemper.

2. Painful is this distemper; therefore we shun it. The wise man hath it not. Knowing it to be bound up with Sorrow, he putteth it away from him. {77}

CHAPTER LXXII

CONCERNING LOVE OF SELF.

1. When men fear not that which is to be feared, that which they fear cometh upon them.

2. Let them not live, without thought, the superficial life. Let them not weary of the Spring of Life!

3. By avoiding the superficial life, this weariness cometh not upon them.

4. These things the wise man knoweth, not showeth: he loveth himself, without isolating his value. He accepteth the former and rejecteth the latter. {78}

CHAPTER LXXIII

ESTABLISHING THE LAW OF FREEDOM.

1. One man, daring, is executed; another, not daring, liveth. It would seem as if the one course were profitable and the other detrimental. Yet when Heaven smiteth a man, who shall assign the cause thereof? Therefore the sage is diffident.

2. The Tao of Heaven contendeth not, yet it overcometh; it is silent, yet its need is answered; it summoneth none, but all men come to it of their free will. Its method is quietness, yet its will is efficient. Large are the meshes of Heaven's Net; wide open, yet letting none escape. {79}

CHAPTER LXXIV

A RESTRAINT OF MISUNDERSTANDING.

1. The people have no fear of death; why then seek to awe them by the threat of death? If the people feared death and I could put to death evil-doers, who would dare to offend?

2. There is one appointed to inflict death. He who would usurp that position resembleth a hewer of wood doing the work of a carpenter. Such an one, presumptuous, will be sure to cut his own hands. {80}

CHAPTER LXXV

THE INJURY OF GREED.

1. The people suffer hunger because of the weight of taxation imposed by their rulers. This is the cause of famine.

2. The people are difficult to govern because their rulers meddle with them. This is the cause of bad government.

3. The people welcome death because the toil of living is intolerable. This is why they esteem death lightly. In such a state of insecurity it is better to ignore the question of living than to set store by it. {81}

CHAPTER LXXVI

A WARNING AGAINST RIGIDITY.

1. At the birth of man, he is elastic and weak; at his death, rigid and unyielding. This is the common law; trees also, in their youth, are tender and supple; in their decay, hard and dry.

2. So then rigidity and hardness are the stigmata of death; elasticity and adaptability, of life.

3. He then who putteth forth strength is not victorious; even as a strong tree filleth the embrace.

4. Thus the hard and rigid have the inferior place, the soft and elastic the superior. {82}

CHAPTER LXXVII

THE WAY OF HEAVEN.

1. The Tao of Heaven is likened to the bending of a bow, whereby the high part is brought down, and the low part raised up. The extreme is diminished, and the middle increased.

2. This is the Way of Heaven, to remove excess, and to supplement insufficiency. Not so is the way of man, who taketh away from him that hath not to give to him that hath already excess.

3. Who can employ his own excess to the weal of all under Heaven? Only he that possesseth the Tao.

4. So the Wise Man acteth without lust of result; achieveth and boasteth not; he willeth not to proclaim his greatness. {83}

CHAPTER LXXVIII

A CREED.

1. Nothing in the world is more elastic and yielding than water; yet it is preeminent to dissolve things rigid and resistant; there is nothing which can match it.

2. All men know that the soft overcometh the hard, and the weak conquereth the strong; but none are able to use this law in action.

3. A Wise Man hath said: "He that taketh on the burden of the state is a demigod worthy of sacrificial worship; and the true King of a people is he that undertaketh the weight of their sorrows."

4. Truth appeareth paradox. {84}

CHAPTER LXXIX

TRUTH IN COVENANT.

1. When enemies are reconciled, there is always an aftermath of illwill. How can this be useful?

2. Therefore, the Wise Man, while he keepeth his part of the record of a transaction, doth not insist on its prompt execution. He who hath the Teh considereth the situation from all sides, while he who hath it not seeketh only to benefit himself.

3. In the Tao of Heaven, there is no distinction of persons in its love; but it is for the True Man to claim it. {85}

CHAPTER LXXX

ISOLATION.

1. In a little kingdom of few people it should be the order that though there were men able to do the work of ten men or five score, they should not be employed. Though the people regarded death as sorrowful, yet they should not wish to go elsewhere.

2. They should have boats and wagons, yet no necessity to travel; corslets and weapons, yet no occasion to fight.

3. For communication they should use knotted cords.

4. They should deem their food sweet, their clothes beautiful, their houses homes, their customs delightful.

5. There should be another state within view, so that its fowls and dogs should be heard; yet to old age, even to death, the people should hold no traffic with it. {86}

CHAPTER LXXXI

THE SHEWING-FORTH OF SIMPLICITY.

1. True speech is not elegant; elaborate speech is not truth. Those who know do not argue; the argumentative are without knowledge. Those who have assimilated are not learned; those who are gross with learning have not assimilated.

2. The Wise Man doth not hoard. The more he giveth, the more he hath; the more he watereth, the more is he watered himself.

3. The Tao of Heaven is like an Arrow, yet it woundeth not; and the Wise Man, in all his Works, maketh no contention. {87}

BAPHOMET XI°

Liber CLXI

{Book 161}
Concerning the Law of Thelema

The following epistle first appeared in The Equinox III(1)(Detroit: Universal, 1919), and offers specific instances of the application of the various programs and policies outlined in other papers such as The Open Letter. As remarked elsewhere in this issue, certain programs have yet to be implemented, and some will require modification in order to conform with the laws governing non-profit religious organizations in various countries.--H.B.

Issued by Order: BAPHOMET XI° O.T.O., HIBERNIAE IONAE ET OMNIUM
BRITANNIARUM, REX SUMMUS SANCTISSIMUS

AN EPISTLE WRITTEN TO PROFESSOR L-- B-- K-- who also himself waited for the New Aeon, concerning the O.T.O. and its solution of divers problems of Human Society, particularly those concerning Property, and now reprinted for General Circulation.

My Dear Sir,--

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

I was glad to receive your letter of inquiry with regard to the Message of the Master Therion.

It struck you naturally enough that on the surface there is little distinction between the New Law and the canon of Anarchy; and you ask, "How is the Law to be fulfilled in the case of two boys who want to eat the same orange?" But since only one boy (at most) can eat the orange, it is evident that one of them is mistaken in supposing that it is essential to his Will to eat it. The question is to be decided in the good old way by fighting for it. All that we ask is that the fighting should be done chivalrously, with respect to the courage of the vanquished. "As brothers fight ye!" In other words, there is only this difference from our present state of society, that manners are improved. There are many persons who are naturally slaves, who have no stomach to fight, who tamely yield all to any one strong enough to take it. These persons cannot accept the Law. This also is understood and provided for in The Book of the Law: "The slaves shall serve." But it is possible for any apparent slave to prove his mastery by fighting his ppressors, even as now; but he has this additional chance in our system, that his conduct will be watched with kindly eye by our authorities, and his prowess rewarded by admission to the ranks of the master-class. Also, he will be given fair play.

You may now ask how such arrangements are possible. There is only one solution to this great problem. It has always been admitted that the ideal form of government is that of a "benevolent despot," and despotisms have only fallen because it is impossible in practice to assure the goodwill of those in power. The rules of chivalry, and those of Bushido in the East, gave the best chance to develop rulers of the desired type. Chivalry failed principally because it was confronted with new problems; to-day we know perfectly what those problems were, and are able to solve them. It is generally understood by all men of education that the general welfare is necessary to the highest development of the particular; and the troubles of America are in great part due to the fact that the men in power are often utterly devoid of all general education.

I would call your attention to the fact that many monastic orders, both in Asia and in Europe, have succeeded in surviving all changes of government, and in securing pleasant and useful lives for their members. But this has been possible only because restricted life was enjoined. However, there were orders of military monks, like the Templars, who grew and prospered exceedingly. You recall that the Order of the Temple was only overthrown by a treacherous coup d'état on the part of a King and of a Pope who saw their reactionary, obscurantist, and tyrannical programme menaced by those knights who did not scruple to add the wisdom of the East to their own large interpretation of Christianity, and who represented in that time a movement towards the light of learning and of science, which has been brought to fruition in our own times by the labours of the Orientalists from Von Hammer-Purgstall and Sir William Jones to Professor Rhys Davids and Madame Blavatsky, to say nothing of such philosophers as Schopenhauer, on the one hand; and by the heroic efforts of Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, and Spencer, on the other.

I have no sympathy with those who cry out against property, as if what all men desire were of necessity evil; the natural instinct of every man is to own, and while man remains in this mood, attempts to destroy property must not only be nugatory, but deleterious to the community. There is no outcry against the rights of proÿerty where wisdom and kindness administer it. The average man is not so unreasonable as the demagogue, for his selfish ends, pretends to be. The great nobles of all time have usually been able to create a happy family of their dependents, and unflinching loyalty and devotion have been their reward. The secret has been principally this, that they considered themselves noble as well in nature as in name, and thought it foul shame to themselves if any retainer met unneccessary misfortune. The upstart of to-day lacks this feeling; he must try constantly to prove his superiority by exhibiting his power; and harshness is his only weapon. In any society where each person has his allotted place, and that a place with its own special honour, mutual respect and self- respect are born. Every man is in his own way a king, or at least heir to some kingdom. We have many examples of such society to-day, notably universities and all associations of sport. No. 5 in the Harvard crew does not turn round in the middle of the race and reproach No. 4 for being merely No. 4; nor do the pitcher and catcher of a crack baseball nine revile each other because their tasks are different. It is to be noted that wherever team-work is necessary social tolerance is an essential. The common soldier is invested with a uniform as well as his officer, and in any prÿerly trained army he is taught his own canons of honour and self-respect. This feeling, more than mere discipline or the possession of weapons, makes the soldier more than a match morally for a man not so clothed in prÿer reverence for himself and his profession.

University men who have passed through some crisis of hardship or temptation have often told me that the backbone of their endurance was the "old shoÿ." Much of this is evidently felt by those who talk of re-establishing the old trade guilds. But I fear I digress.

I have, however, now placed before you the main points of my thesis. We need to extend to the whole of society the peculiar feeling which obtains in our most successful institutions, such as the services, the universities, the clubs. Heaven and hell are states of mind; and if the devil be really proud, his hell can hurt him little.

It is this, then, that I desire to emphasize: those who accept the New Law, the Law of the Aeon of Horus, the crowned and conquering child who replaces in our theogony the suffering and despairing victim of destiny, the Law of Thelema, which is Do What Thou Wilt, those who accept it (I say) feel themselves immediately to be kings and queens. "Every man and every woman is a star" is the first statement of The Book of the Law. In the pamphlet, The Law of Liberty, this theme is embroidered with considerable care, and I will not trouble you with further quotation.

You will say swiftly that the heavenly state of mind thus induced will be hard put to it to endure hunger and cold. The thought occurred also to our founder, and I will endeavour to put before you the skeleton of his plan to avert such misfortune (or at least such ordeal) from his adherents.

In the first place he availed himself of a certain organization of which he was offered the control, namely, the O.T.O. This great Order accepted the Law immediately, and was justified by the sudden and great revival of its activities. The Law was given to our founder twelve years ago; the O.T.O. came into his hands eight years later, in the vulgar year 1912. It must not be supposed that he was idle during the former period; but he was very young, and had no idea of taking practical measures to extend the Dominion of the Law: he pursued his studies.

However, with the sudden growth of the O.T.O. from 1912 E.V. onward, he began to perceive a method of putting the Law into general practice, of making it possible for men and women to live in accordance with the precepts laid down in The Book of the Law, and to accomplish their wills; I do not say to gratify their passing fancies, but to do that for which they were intended by their own high destiny. For in this universe, since it is in equilibrium and the sum total of its energies is therefore zero, every force therein is equal and oÿposite to the resultant of all the other forces combined. The Ego is therefore always exactly equal to the Non-Ego, and the destruction of an atom of helium would be as catastrophic to the conservation of matter and energy as if a million spheres were blotted into annihilation by the will of God. I am well aware that from this point you could draw me subtly over the tiger-trap of the Freewill Controversy; you would make it difficult for me even to say that it is better to fulfil one's destiny consciously and joyously than like a stone; but I am on my guard. I will return to plain politics and common sense.

Our Founder, then, when he thought over this matter from a purely practical standpoint, remembered those institutions with which he was familiar, which flourished. He bethought himself of monasteries like Monsalvat, of universities like Cambridge, of golf clubs like Hoylake, of social clubs like the Cocoa-Tree, of co-operative societies, and, having sojourned in America, of Trusts. In his mind he expanded each of these to its nth power, he blended them like the skilled chemist that he was, he considered their excellences and their limitations; in a word, he meditated profoundly upon the whole subject, and he concluded with the vision of a perfect society.

He saw all men free, all men wealthy, all men respected; and he planted the seed of his Utopia by handing over his own house to the O.T.O., the organization which should operate his plan, under certain conditions. What he had foreseen occurred; he had possessed one house; by surrendering it he became owner of a thousand houses. He gave up the world, and found it at his feet.

Eliphaz Levi, the great magician of the middle of the last century, whose philosophy made possible the extraordinary outburst of literature in France in the fifties and sixties by its doctrine of the self-sufficiency of Art ("A fine style is an aureole of holiness" is one phrase of his), prophesies of the Messiah in a remarkable passage. It will be seen that our founder, born as he was to the purple, has fulfilled it.

I have not the volume at my side, living as I am this hermit life in New Hampshire, but its gist is that Kings and Popes have not power to redeem the world because they surround themselves with splendour and dignity. They possess all that other men desire, and therefore their motives are suspect. If any person of position, says Levi, insists upon living a life of hardship and inconvenience when he could do otherwise, then men will trust him, and he will be able to execute his projects for the general good of the commonwealth. But he must naturally be careful not to relax his austerities as his power increases. Make power and splendour incompatible, and the social problem is solved.

"Who is that ragged man gnawing a dry crust by yonder cabin?" "That is the President of the Republic." Where honour is the only possible good to be gained by the exercise of power, the man in power will strive only for honour.

The above is an extreme case; no one need go so far nowadays; and it is important that the President should have been used to terrapin and becasse flambe before he went into politics.

You will ask how this operated, and how the system inaugurated by him works. It is simple. Authority and prestige in the Order are absolute, but while the lower grades give increase of privilege, the higher give increase of service. Power in the Order depends, therefore, directly on the willingness to aid others. Tolerance also is taught in the higher grades; so that no man can be even an Inspector of the Order unless he be equally well disposed to all classes of opinion. You may have six wives or none; but if you have six, you are required not to let them talk all at once, and if you have none, you are required to refrain from boring other peoÿle with dithyrambs upon your own virtue. This tolerance is taught by a peculiar course of instruction whose nature it would be imprudent as well as impertinent to disclose; I will ask you to accept my word that it is efficient.

With this provision, it is easy to see that intolerance and snobbery are impossible; for the example set by members of the universally respected higher grades is against this. I may add that members are bound together by participation in certain mysteries, which lead to a synthetic climax in which a single secret is communicated whose nature is such as to set at rest for ever all division on those fertile causes of quarrel, sex and religion. The possession of this secret gives the members entitled to it such calm of authority that the perfect respect which is their due never fails them.

Thus, then, you see brethren dwelling together in unity; and you wonder whether the lust of possession may not cause division. On the contrary, this matter has been the excellent cause of general prosperity.

In the majority of cases property is wasted. One has six houses; three remain unlet. One has 20 percent of the stock of a certain company; and is frozen out by the person with 51 percent.

There are a thousand dangers and drawbacks to the possession of this world's goods which thin the hairs of those who cling to them.

In the O.T.O. all this trouble is avoided. Such property as any member of the Order wills is handed over to the Great Officers either as a gift, or in trust. In the latter case it is administered in the interest of the donor. Property being thus pooled, immense economies are effected. One lawyer does the work of fifty; house agents let houses instead of merely writing misleading entries in books; the O.T.O. controls the company instead of half-a-dozen isolated and impotent stockholders. Whatever the O.T.O. findeth to do, it does with all its might; none dare oppose the power of a corporation thus centralised, thus ramified. To become a member of the O.T.O. is to hitch your wagon to a star.

But if you are poor? If you have no property? The O.T.O. still helps you. There will always be unoccupied houses which you can tend rent-free; there is certainty of employment, if you desire it, from other members. If you keep a shp, you may be sure that O.T.O. members will be your customers; if you are a doctor or a lawyer, they will be your clients. Are you sick? The other members hasten to your bed to ask of what you are in need. Do you need company? The Profess-House of the O.T.O. is open to you. Do you require a loan? The Treasurer-General of the O.T.O. is empowered to advance to you, without interest, up to the total amount of your fees and subscriptions. Are you on a journey? You have the right to the hospitality of the Master of a Lodge of the O.T.O. for three days in any one place. Are you anxious to educate your children? The O.T.O. will fit them for the battle. Are you at odds with a brother? The Grand Tribunal of the O.T.O. will arbitrate, free of charge, between you. Are you moribund? You have the power to leave the total amount that you have paid into the Treasury of the O.T.O. to whom you will. Will your children be orphan? No; for they will be adopted if you wish by the Master of your Lodge, or by the Grand Master of the O.T.O.

In short, there is no circumstance of life in which the O.T.O. is not both sword and shield.

You wonder? You reply that this can only be by generosity, by divine charity of the high toward the low, of the rich toward the poor, of the great toward the small? You are a thousand times right; you have understood the secret of the O.T.O.

That such qualities can flourish in an extended community may surprise so eminent and so profound a student of humanity as yourself; yet examples abound of practices the most unnatural and repugnant to mankind which have continued through centuries. I need not remind you of Jaganath and of the priests of Attis, for extreme cases.

A fortiori, then, it must be possible to train men to independence, to tolerance, to nobility of character, and to good manners, and this is done in the O.T.O. by certain very efficacious methods which (for I will not risk further wearying you) I will not describe. Besides, they are secret. But beyond them is the supreme incentive; advancement in the Order depends almost entirely on the possession of such qualities, and is impossible without it. Power being the main desire of man, it is only necessary so to condition its possession that it be not abused.

Wealth is of no account in the O.T.O. Above a certain grade all realisable property, with certain obvious exceptions--things in daily use, and the like--must be vested in the O.T.O. Proÿerty may be enjoyed in accordance with the dignity of the adept of such grade, but he cannot leave it idle or sequestrate it from the common good. He may travel, for instance, as a railway magnate travels; but he cannot injure the commonwealth by setting his private car athwart the four main lines.

Even intellectual eminence and executive ability are at a certain discount in the Order. Work is invariably found for persons possessing these qualifications, and they attain high status and renown for their reward; but not advancement in the Order, unless they exhibit a talent for government, and this will be exhibited far more by nobility of character, firmness and suavity, tact and dignity, high honour and good manners, those qualities (in short) which are, in the best minds, natural predicates of the word gentleman. The knowledge of this fact not only inspires confidence in the younger members, but induces them to emulate their seniors.

In order to appreciate the actual working of the system, it is necessary to visit our Profess-Houses. (It is hoped that some will shortly be established in the United States of America.) Some are like the castles of mediaeval barons, some are simple cottages; the same spirit rules in all. It is that of perfect hospitality. Each one is free to do as he will; and the luxury of this enjoyment is such that he becomes careful to avoid disturbance of the equal right of others. Yet, the authority of the Abbot of the House being supreme, any failure to observe this rule is met with approÿriate energy. The case cannot really arise, unless circumstances are quite beyond the ordinary; for the period of hospitality is strictly limited, and extensions depend upon the goodwill of the Abbot. Naturally, as it takes all sorts to make a world--and we rejoice in that diversity which makes our unity so exquisite a miracle--some Profess-Houses will suit one person, some another. And birds of a feather will learn to flock together. However, the well-being of the Order and the study of its mysteries being at the heart of every member of the Order, there is inevitably one common ground on which all may meet.

I fear that I have exhausted your patience with this letter, and I beg you to excuse me. But as you know, out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh...you are perfectly right to retort that it need not speak so much!

I add no more, but our glad greeting to all men:

Love is the law, love under will.

I am, dear sir,

Yours in the Bonds of the Order,

J. B. MASON

LIBER COLLEGII SANCTI
                                  Sub Figura
                                    CLXXXV

                        Being the Tasks of the Grades,  
                               and their Oaths,  
                             proper to Liber XIII, 

                            the publications of the 
                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            in Class D from A to G.



     This  paper  is  to  be returned to the  A.'.  A.'.  by  the  Neophyte 
    introducing through his Zelator.

                       A.'. A.'. Publication in Class D. 

                                       A.

                           THE TASK OF A PROBATIONER.

    0.  Let  any  person  be  received by  a  Neophyte,  the  latter  being 
    responsible to his Zelator.

    1. The period of Probation shall be at least one year.

    2. The aspirant to the A.'. A.'. shall hear the Lection (Liber LXI) and 
    this note of his office;  IF HE WILL,  shall then procure the robe of a 
    Probationer; shall choose with deep forethought and intense solemnity a 
    motto.

    3.  On reception, he shall receive the robe, sign the form provided and 
    repeat the oath appointed, and receive the First Volume of the Book.

    4.  He shall commit a chapter of Liber LXV to memory;  and furthermore, 
    he shall study the Publications of the A.'.  A.'. in Class B, and apply 
    himself to such practices of Scientific Illuminism as seemeth him good.

    5.  Beside all this,  he shall perform any tasks that the A.'. A.'. may 
    see fit to lay upon him.  Let him be mindful that the word  Probationer 
    is  no  idle  term,  but that the Brothers will in many  a  subtle  way 
    'prove' him, when he knoweth it not.

    6.  When  the  sun shall next enter the sign under which he  hath  been 
    received, his initiation may be granted unto him. He shall keep himself 
    free from all other engagements for one whole week from that date.

    7.  He  may  at any moment withdraw from his association with the  
    A.'. A.'., simply notifying the Neophyte who introduced him.

    8.  He  shall  everywhere  proclaim  openly  his  connection  with  the  
    A.'.  A.'.  and  speak of It and Its principles (even so little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    One month before the completion of his year, he shall deliver a copy of 
    the  Record of his year's work to the Neophyte introducing,  and repeat 
    to him his chosen chapter of Liber LXV.

    9. He shall hold himself chaste, and reverent toward his body, for that 
    the  ordeal  of  initiation  is no  light  one.  This  is  of  peculiar 
    importance in last two months of his Probation.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he attain the great reward: YEA, MAY HE 
    OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Liberty                                                      Life 
     Power                                                   Putrefaction 
    Destiny                                                      Death        


                         THE OATH OF THE PROBATIONER.

    I,___________________________________________________,  being  of sound 

    mind      and      Body,       on      this      _____________      day 

    of____________________________________________  (An  _________  Sun  in 

    ________________________degrees) do hereby resolve:  in the Presence of 

    _________________________________,  a  Neophyre of  the  A.'.  A.'.  To 

    prosecute the Great Work: which is, to obtain a scientific knowledge of 

    the nature and powers of my own being.

    May  the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work, lend me of its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!

    Reverence, duty, sympathy, devotion, fidelity, trust do I bring to  the 

    A.'.  A.'.,  and  in  one year from this date may I be admitted to  the 

    knowlegde and conversation of the A.'. A.'.!



     Witness my hand____________________________________

     Motto______________________________________________


     Love                                                          Light 
    Passion                                                      Preception
    Debauch                                                       Darkness



    This  paper  is  to be returned to the Chancellor  of  the  A.'.   A.'. 
    through the Zelator admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            Publication in Class D 

                                      B.

                              TASK OF A NEOPHYTE

    0.   Let  any  Probationer  who  has  accomplished  his  task  to   the 
    satisfaction  of the A.'.  A.'.  be instructed in the proper course  of 
    procedure:  which is:  -- Let him read through this note of his office, 
    and  sign it,  paying the sum of One Guinea for Liber VII which will be 
    given him on his initiation, and One Guinea for this Portfolio of Class 
    D  publications,  B - G.  Let him obtain the robe of  a  Neophyte,  and 
    entrust the same to the care of his Neophyte.

    He  shall  choose  a  new  motto  with  deep  forethought  and  intense 
    solemnity,  as  expressing the clearer consciousness of his  Aspiration 
    which the year's Probation has given him.

    Let  him  make an appointment with his Neophyte at the pleasure of  the 
    the latter for the ceremony of Initiation.

    1.  The Neophyte shall not proceed to the grade of Zelator in less than 
    eight months; but shall hold himself free for four days for advancement 
    at the end of that period.

    2. He shall pass the four tests called the Powers of the Sphinx.

    3. He shall apply himself to understand the nature of his Initiation.

    4.  He shall commit to memory a chapter of Liber VII;  and furthermore, 
    he  shall study and practice a chapter of Liber O in all its  branches: 
    also he shall begin to study Liber H and some commonly accepted  method 
    of  divination.  He will further be examined in his power of Journeying 
    in the Spirit Vision.

    5.  Beside all this, he shall perform any tasks that his Zelator in the 
    name of the A.'. A.'. and by its authority may see fit to lay upon him. 
    Let him be mindful that the word Neophyte is no idle term,  but that in 
    many a subtle way the new nature will stir within him,  when he knoweth 
    it not.

    6.  When the sun shall next enter the sigh 240 (degrees) to that  under 
    which  he hath been received,  his advancement may be granted unto him. 
    He  shall keep himself free from all other engagements for  four  whole 
    days from that date.

    7.  He  may  at any moment withdraw from his association with the  A.'. 
    A.'., simply notifying the Zelator who introduced him.

    8.  He  shall everywhere proclaim openly his connection with  the  A.'. 
    A.'.  and  speak  of  It  and  Its principles (even  so  little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    Furthermore,  he shall construct the magic Pentacle,  according to  the 
    instruction in Liber A.

    One month before the completion of his eight months, he shall deliver a 
    copy of his Record to his Zelator, pass the necessary tests, and repeat 
    to him his chosen chapter of Liber VII.

    9.  He  shall in every way fortify his body according to the advice  of 
    his Zelator, for that the ordeal of advancement is no light one.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he obtain the great reward: YEA, MAY HE 
    OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                            THE OATH OF A NEOPHYTE


    I,________________________________________________,  (old  motto) being 

    of  sound  mind  and Body,  and prepared,  on  this  _____________  day 

    of___________________(An           _________           Sun           in 

    ________________________degrees) do hereby resolve:  in the Presence of 

    _________________________________,  a  Zelator  of  the  A.'.  A.'.  To 

    prosecute the Great Work: which is, to obtain control of the nature and 

    powers of my own being.


    Further, I promise to observe zeal in service to the Probationers under 

    me, and to deny myself utterly on their behalf.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence, duty, sympathy, devotion, assiduity, trust do I bring to the 

    A.'.  A.'., and in eight months from this date may I be admitted to the 

    knowlegde and conversation of the A.'. A.'.!

    Witness my hand____________________________________

    New Motto__________________________________________



    This paper is to be returned to the Chancellor of the A.'. A.'. through 
    the Practicus admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            Publication in Class D 

                                      C.

                            THE TASK OF A ZELATOR.

    0.  Let  any Neophyte who has accomplished his task to the satisfaction 
    of the A.'. A.'. be instructed in the proper course of procedure: which 
    is:--

    Let him read through this note of his office,  and sign it,  paying the 
    sum of Three Guineas for the volume containing Liber CCXX,  Liber XXVII 
    and Liber DCCCXIII, which will be given him on his initiation.

    Let him cause the necessary addition to be make to his Neophyte's robe, 
    and entrust the same to the care of his Zelator.

    Let  him  make an appointment with his Zelator at the pleasure  of  the 
    latter for the ceremony of initiation.

    1. The Zelator shall proceed to that grade of Practicus at any time the 
    authority confers it.

    2.  He shall pass Examinations in Liber E,  Posture and  Breathing.  He 
    shall  have attained complete success in the former,  i.e.,  the chosen 
    posture  shall be perfectly steady and easy;  and attained  the  second 
    stage in the latter, i.e., automatic rigidity.

    3.  He  shall  further  show some acquaintance with and  experience  of 
    meditations  given in Liber HHH.  And in this his Record shall  be  his 
    witness.

    4.  He  shall commit to memory a chapter of Liber CCXX;  he shall  pass 
    examinations in Liber HHH.

    5. Beside all this, he shall apply himself to the work of the A.'. A.'. 
    upon his own responsibility.

    Let  him be mindful that the word Zelator is no idle term,  but that  a 
    certain Zeal will be inflamed with him, why he knoweth not.

    6.  When  authority confers the grade,  he shall rejoice  therein;  but 
    beware,  for that that is his first departure from the middle pillar of 
    the Tree of Life.

    7.  He  may  at any moment withdraw from his association with the  A.'. 
    A.'. simply notifying the Practicus who introduced him.

    Yet  let  him remember that being entered thus far upon  the  Path,  he 
    cannot excape it,  and return to the world, but must ultimate either in 
    the City of the Pyramids or the lonely towers of the Abyss.

    8.  He  shall everywhere proclaim openly his connection with  the  A.'. 
    A.'.  and  speak  of  It  and  Its principles (even  so  little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    Furthermore,  he  shall construct the magic Dagger,  according  to  the 
    instruction in Liber A.

    One month before the completion of his eight months, he shall deliver a 
    copy of his Record to his Zelator, pass the necessary tests, and repeat 
    to him his chosen chapter of Liber CCXX.

    9.  He  shall  in every way establish perfect control of his  Automatic 
    Consciousness  according to the advice of his Practicus,  for that  the 
    ordeal of advancement is no light one.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he obtain to the great reward: YEA, MAY 
    HE OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                            THE OATH OF A ZELATOR.

    I,________________________________________________,  (motto)  being  of 

    sound  mind  and  Body,   and  prepared,   on  this  _____________  day 

    of_________________(An _________ Sun in ____________________degrees) do 

    hereby resolve: in the Presence of _________________________________, a 

    Practicus of the A.'.  A.'.:  To prosecute the Great Work: which is, to 

    obtain control of the foundations of my own being.


    Further,  I  promise to observe zeal in service to the Neophytes  under 

    me, and to deny myself utterly on their behalf.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of Its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence,  duty,  sympathy,  devotion,  assiduity do  I  bring  to the 

    A.'.  A.'.,  and  right  soon may I be admitted to  the  knowlegde  and 

    conversation of the A.'. A.'.!


    Witness my hand[motto]____________________________________


    This paper is to be returned to the Chancellor of the A.'. A.'. through 
    the Philosophus admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            Publication in Class D. 

                                      D.

                           THE TASK OF A PRACTICUS.

    0. Let any Zelator be appointed by authority to proceed to the grade of 
    Practicus.

    Let him then read through this note of his office, and sign it.

    Let him cause the neccessary addition to be made to his Zelator's robe.

    Let  him make an appointment with his Practicus at the pleasure of  the 
    latter for the conferring of advancement.

    1.  The Practicus shall proceed to the grade of Philosophus at any time 
    authority confers it.

    2.  He  shall pass examinations in Liber DCCLXXVII,  the  Qabalah,  and 
    Sepher Sephiroth.

    He shall attain complete success in Liber III, Cap. I.

    3.  He  shall further show some acquaintance with and experience of his 
    chosen  method  of divination.  Yet he shall be his own judge  in  this 
    matter.

    4.  He shall commit to memory Liber XXVII and pass examinations in  the 
    Ritual  and meditation practice given in Liber XVI.  Further,  he shall 
    pass in the meditation practice S. S. S., in Liber HHH.

    5.  Besides  all this,  he shall apply himself to a way of life  wholly 
    suited to the Path.

    Let  him  remember that the word Practicus is no idle  term,  but  that 
    Action is the equilibrium of him that is in the House of  Mercury,  who 
    is the Lord of Intelligence.

    6.  When  authority confers the grade,  he shall rejoice  therein,  but 
    beware, for that that is his second departure from the middle pillar of 
    the Tree of Life.

    7.  Let  him  not venture while a member of the grade of  Practicus  to 
    attempt to withdraw from his association with the A.'. A.'.

    8.  He  shall  everywhere proclaim openly his connection with the  A.'. 
    A.'.  and  speak  of  It  and Its principles  (even  so  little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    Furthermore,  he  shall  construct  the magic  Cup,  according  to  the 
    instruction in Liber A.

    One month after his admission to the Grade he shall go to his Practice, 
    pass the neccessary tests, and repeat to him Liber XXVII.

    9. He shall in every way establish perfect control of his wit according 
    to the advice of his Philosophus, for that the ordeal of advancement is 
    no light one.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he obtain to the great reward: YEA, MAY 
    HE OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                           THE OATH OF A PRACTICUS.



    I,________________________________________________,  (motto)  being  of 

    sound  mind  and  Body,   and  prepared,   on  this  _____________  day 

    of_________________(An _________ Sun in ____________________degrees) do 

    hereby resolve: in the Presence of _________________________________, a 

    Philosophus of the A.'. A.'.: To prosecute the Great Work: which is, to 

    obtain control of the vacillations of my own being.


    Further,  I  promise to observe zeal in service to the Zelatores  under 

    me, and to deny myself utterly on their behalf.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of Its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence,  duty,  sympathy,  devotion, do I bring to the A.'. A.'. and 

    right  soon may I be admitted to the knowlegde and conversation of  the 

    A.'. A.'.!



    Witness my hand[motto]____________________________________






    This paper is to be returned to the Chancellor of the A.'. A.'. through 
    the Dominus Liminis admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 

                            Publication in Class D. 

                                      E.

                          THE TASK OF A PHILOSOPHUS.

    0.  Let any Practicus be appointed by authority to proceed to the grade 
    of Philosophus.

    Let him then read through this note of his office, and sign it.

    Let him cause the necessary addition to be made to his Practicus' robe.

    Let him make an appointment with his Philosophus at the pleasure of the 
    latter for the conferring of advancement.

    1.  The  Philosophus shall receive the title of Dominus Liminis at  any 
    time that authority confers it.

    2.  He  shall pass examinations in Liber CLXXV and in Construction  and 
    Consecration of Talismans and in Evocation. Yet in this matter he shall 
    be his own judge.

    He shall moreover attain complete success in Liber III, Cap. II.

    Further,  he shall apply himself to study and practice the  meditations 
    given in Liber V.

    3.  He  shall  show some acquaintance with and experience of  Liber  O, 
    Caps. V, VI. Whereof his Record shall be witness.

    4. He shall commit to memory a chapter of Liber DCCCXIII.

    5.  Besides  all this,  he shall make constant and profound reflections 
    upon the Path.

    Let  him remember that the word Philosophus is no idle term,  but  that 
    Philosophy  is  the Equilibrium of him that is in the  house  of  Venus 
    thatis the Lady of Love.

    6.  When  the title of Dominus Liminis is conferred upon him,  let  him 
    rejoice exceedingly therein;  but beware,  for that it is but the false 
    veil of the moon that hangs beneath the Sun.

    7.  Let  him not venture while a member of the grade of Philosophus  to 
    attempt to withdraw from his association with the A.'. A.'.

    8.  He  shall  everywhere proclaim openly his connection with the  A.'. 
    A.'.  and  speak  of  It  and Its principles  (even  so  little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    Furthermore,  he  shall  construct  the magic Wand,  according  to  the 
    instructions in Liber A.

    One  month  after  his  admission to the Grade,  he  shall  go  to  his 
    Philosophus,  pass  the  necessary  tests,  and  repeat  to  him  Liber 
    DCCCXIII.

    9.  He  shall  in  every  establish perfect  control  of  his  devotion 
    according to the advice of his Dominus Liminis,  for that the ordeal of 
    advancement is no light one.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he obtain to the great reward: YEA, MAY 
    HE OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                          THE OATH OF A PHILOSOPHUS.



    I,________________________________________________,  (motto)  being  of 

    sound  mind  and  Body,   and  prepared,   on  this  _____________  day 

    of_________________(An _________ Sun in _______________________degrees) 

    do       hereby      resolve:       in      the       Presence       of 

    _________________________________,  a Dominus Liminis of the A.'. A.'.: 

    To  prosecute  the  Great Work:  which is,  to obtain  control  of  the 

    attractions and repulsions of my own being.


    Further, I promise to observe zeal in service to the Practici under me, 

    and to deny myself utterly on their behalf.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of Its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence,  duty,  sympathy, do I bring to the A.'. A.'. and right soon 

    may I be admitted to the knowlegde and conversation of the A.'. A.'.!



    Witness my hand[motto]____________________________________



    This paper is to be returned to the Chancellor of the A.'. A.'. through 
    the Adeptus Minor admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            Publication in Class D. 

                                      F.

                        THE TASK OF A DOMINUS LIMINIS.

    0. Let any Philosophus be appointed by authority a Dominus Liminis.

    Let him then read through this note of his office and sign it.

    Let  him  cause the necessary addition to be made to  his  Philosophus' 
    robe.

    Let him receive Liber Mysteriorum.

    Let him make an appointment with his Dominus Liminis at the pleasure of 
    the latter for the confering of advancement.

    1.  The  Dominus Liminis shall proceed to the Grade of Adeptus Minor at 
    any time that authority confers it.

    2. He shall pass examination in Liber III, Cap. III.

    3.  He  shall meditate on the diverse knowledge and Power that  he  has 
    acquired,  and  harmonize it perfectly.  And in this matter shall he be 
    judged by the Praemonstrator of the A.'. A.'.

    4.  He shall accept an office in a Temple of Initiation,  and commit to 
    memory a part appointed by the Imperator of the A.'. A.'.

    5. Besides all this, he shall abide upon the Threshold. Let him remember
    that the word Dominus Liminis is no idle term, but that his mastery
    will often be disputed, when he knoweth it not.

    6.  When  at last he hath attained the grade of Adeptus Minor,  let him 
    humble himself exceedingly.

    7.  He may at any moment withdraw from his association with the A.'. A.'. 
    simply notifying the Adept who introduced him.

    8.  He  shall  everywhere proclaim openly his connection with the  A.'. 
    A.'.  and  speak  of  It  and Its principles  (even  so  little  as  he 
    understandeth) for that mystery is the enemy of Truth.

    Furthermore,   he   shall  construct  the  magic  Lamp,   according  to 
    instructions in Liber A.

    Six months after his admission to the Grade, he shall go to his Adeptus 
    Minor,  pass the necessary tests,  and repeat to him his appointed part 
    in the Temple of Initiation.

    9.  He  shall in every way establish perfect control of his  intuition, 
    according  to the advice of his Adeptus Minor,  for that the ordeal  of 
    advancement is no light one.

    10.  Thus and not otherwise may he obtain to the great reward: YEA, MAY 
    HE OBTAIN THE GREAT REWARD!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                        THE OATH OF A DOMINUS LIMINIS.



    I,________________________________________________,  (motto)  being  of 

    sound  mind  and  Body,   and  prepared,   on  this  _____________  day 

    of___________________(An _________ Sun in _____________________degrees) 

    do       hereby      resolve:       in      the       Presence       of 

    _________________________________,  an Adeptus Minor of the A.'.  A.'.: 

    To  prosecute  the  Great Work:  which is,  to obtain  control  of  the 

    aspirations of my own being.


    Further,  I  promise to observe zeal in service to the Philosophi under 

    me, and to deny myself utterly on their behalf.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of Its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence,  duty,  sympathy, do I bring to the A.'. A.'. and right soon 

    may I be admitted to the knowlegde and conversation of the A.'. A.'.!



    Witness my hand[motto]____________________________________











    This paper is to be returned to the Chancellor of the A.'. A.'. through 
    the Adeptus admitting.

                                   A.'. A.'. 
                            Publication in Class D. 

                                      G.

                         THE TASK OF A ADEPTUS MINOR.

    Let  the  Adeptus Minor attain to the Knowledge and Conversion  of  his 
    Holy Guardian Angel.

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------


                         THE OATH OF A ADEPTUS MINOR.



    I,________________________________________________,  (motto)  being  of 

    sound  mind  and  Body,   and  prepared,   on  this  _____________  day 

    of__________________(An _________ Sun in ______________________degrees) 

    do       hereby      resolve:       in      the       Presence       of 

    _________________________________,  an  Adeptus of the  A.'.  A.'.:  To 

    prosecute  the  Great Work:  which is,  to attain to the knowledge  and 

    conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.


    May the A.'.  A.'.  crown the work,  lend me of Its wisdom in the work, 

    enable me to understand the work!


    Reverence and duty do I bring to the A.'.  A.'.  and here and now may I 

    be admitted to the knowlegde and conversation of the A.'. A.'.!



    Witness my hand[motto]____________________________________


BAPHOMET XI°

Liber CXCIV
{Book 194}
O. T. O.



An Intimation
with Reference to the
Constitution of the Order

This Intimation is presently being implemented in the United States-- the most significant recent development was the institution of the Electoral College. Unlike the Constitution proper, which has a decidedly international emphasis, most of its clauses govern national operations. This Intimation should be closely studied in conjunction with the Constitution, the Open Letter and other relevant papers published in this volume by those who are concerned with the future direction of the O.T.O., in the United States and abroad. It first appeared in The Equinox III(1) (Detroit: Universal, 1919). Paragraph numbers have been supplied for reference purposes, and it is followed by a synthetic, diagrammatic representation of the Intimations prepared by the New York Constitutional Study Group.--H.B.

Issued by Order: BAPHOMET XI° O.T.O., HIBERNIAE IONAE ET OMNIUM
BRITANNIARUM, REX SUMMUS SANCTISSIMUS

ANY PROVINCE OF THE O.T.O. is governed by the Grand Master and those to whom he delegates his authority, until such time as the Order is established, which is the case when it possesses eleven or more Profess-Houses in the province. Then the regular constitution is automatically promulgated. The quotation is slightly adapted from an address in one of the rituals.

1. This is the Constitution and Government of our Holy Order; by the study of its Balance you may yourself come to apprehension of how to rule your own life. For, in True Things, all are but images one of another; man is but a map of the universe, and Society is but the same on a larger scale.

2. Learn then that our Holy Order has but Three True Grades; as it is written in The Book of the Law: The Hermit, The Lover, and the Man of Earth.

3. It is but for convenience that these grades have been separated into Three Triads.

4. The Third Triad consists of the degrees from Minerval to Prince of Jerusalem. The Minerval degree is a Prologue to the First; the degrees subsequent to the Third but pendants to it. In this, the Man of Earth series, there are then but Three Degrees; and these Three are One.

5. The Man of Earth takes no share in the Government of the Order; for he is not yet called upon to give his life to it in service; and with us Government is Service, and nothing else. The Man of Earth is therefore in much the position of the Plebian in Rome in the time of Menenius Agrippa. But there is this marked difference; that every Man of Earth is encouraged and expected to push on to the next stage. In order that the feelings of the general body may be represented, the Men of Earth choose four persons, two men and two women, from among themselves, to stand continually before the face of the Father, the Supreme and Holy King, serving him day and night. These persons must not be of higher rank than the Second Degree; they must volunteer for this service at the conclusion of that ceremony; and therefore they give up their own prospect of advancement in the Order for one year, that they may serve their fellows. This is then the first lesson in our great principle, the attainment of honour through renunciation.

6. The degree of Knights of the East and West is but a bridge between the first and second series; but it is important, for in that grade a new pledge-form must be signed, and the new Knight vowed to devote his life to the Establishment of the Law of Thelema.

7. The members of the Fifth Degree are responsible for all that concerns the Social welfare of the Order. This grade is symbolically that of beauty and harmony; it is the natural stpping-place of the majority of men and women; for to proceed farther, as will appear, involves renunciation of the sternest kind. Here then is all joy, peace, well-being on all planes; the Sovereign Prince Rose Croix is attached equally to the higher and the lower, and forms a natural link between them. Yet let him look to it that his eyes are set on high!

8. In this degree the Most Wise Sovereign of each chapter will appoint a committee of four persons, two men and two women, to arrange for all social gatherings, banquets, dances, the performance of plays, and similar pleasures. They will also endeavour to promote harmony among the Brethren in all possible ways, and to compose any disputes by tact and friendliness without formal appeal being made to any more authoritative tribunal.

9. The next grade, that which lies between the Fifth and Sixth Degrees, is called the Senate. This is the first of the governing bodies, properly speaking, and here we begin to insist upon Renunciation. For within this body is the Electoral College of the O.T.O.

10. The principle of popular election is a fatal folly; its results are visible in every so-called democracy. The elected man is always the mediocrity; he is the safe man, the sound man, the man who displeases the majority less than any other; and therefore never the genius, the man of progress and illumination.

11. This electoral college consists of Eleven Persons in each country. It has full control of the affairs of the Men of Earth, appointing Lodge Masters at will. It has however no authority over the Chapters of Rose Croix.

12. Persons who wish to be appointed to this College by the Supreme and Holy King must volunteer for the office. The appointment is for Eleven Years. Volunteers must renounce for that period all further progress in the Order. They must give evidence of first-rate ability in

i(i) Some branch of athletics.

(ii) Some branch of learning.

13. They must also possess a profound general knowledge of history and of the art of government, with some attention to philosophy in general.

14. They must each live in solitude, without more than the necessary speech even to casual neighbours, serving themselves in all respects, for three months continuously, once at least in every two years. The President will summon them at the four seasons of the year, and if necessary at other times, when they will deliberate upon the affairs placed in their charge. All applications to pass to the Fifth Degree must receive their sanction. Appeal from their decisions may however be made to the Supreme Council.

15. The Sixth Degree is an executive or military body, and represents the temporal power of the Supreme and Holy King. Each member is amenable to military discipline. Singly or in concert with his comrades, each Knight is vowed to enforce the decisions of authority.

16. The Grade of Grand Inquisitor Commander follows. Here every member has the right to a seat on the Grand Tribunal, which body decides all disputes and complaints which have not been composed by the Chapters of Rose Croix or the Lodge Masters. Its verdicts are without appeal, unless a member of the Electoral College give sanction to take the case to the Areopagus of the Eighth Degree. All members of the Order, even of higher grades, are subject to the Grand Tribunal.

17. The next grade is that of Prince of the Royal Secret. Every member of this degree is devoted to the Propagation of the Law in a very special manner; for this grade is the first in which the Beginning of the Inmost Secret is declared openly. He will therefore, by his personal exertions, induce one hundred and eleven persons to join the Order, before he may proceed to the Seventh Degree, except by special order from the Supreme and Holy King.

18. The Seventh Degree is, in military language, the Great General Staff of the Army of the Sixth Degree. From its members the Supreme and Holy King appoints a Supreme Grand Council.

19. This Council is charged with the government of the whole of the Second Triad, or Lovers. All members of the Seventh Degree travel as Sovereign Grand Inspectors General of the Order, and report, on their own initiative, to the Supreme and Most Holy King, as to the condition of all Lodges, and Chapters; to the Supreme Council, on all affairs of the Second Triad; and to the Electoral College, on those of the Third.

20. The Eighth Degree is a Philosophical Body. Its members being fully instructed in the Principles of the Order, save in one point only, devote themselves to the understanding of what they have learned in their initiation. They have power to reverse the decisions of the Grand Tribunal, and to compose all conflicts between any of the governing bodies. And this they do upon the great principles of philosophy. For it will often occur that there is contention between two parties, both of whom are right from their own point of view. This is so important that an illustration is desirable. A man is smitten with leprosy; is it right that men should circumscribe his liberty by isolating him from his fellows? Another holds back land or some other necessity from the common use; is he to be compelled to surrender it? Such cases of difficulty involve deep philosophical principles; and the Areopagus of the Eighth Degree is charged with the duty of resolving them in accordance with the great principles of the Order.

21. Before the face of the Areoÿagus stands an independent Parliament of the Guilds. Within the Order, irrespective of grade, the members of each craft, trade, science, or profession form themselves into a Guild, make their own laws, and prosecute their own good, in all matters pertaining to their labour and means of livelihood. Each Guild chooses the man most eminent in it to represent it before the Areopagus of the Eighth Degree; and all disputes between the various Guilds are argued before that Body, which will decide according to the grand principles of the Order. Its decisions pass for ratification to the Sanctuary of the Gnosis, and thence to the Throne.

22. Epopts and Pontiffs of this exalted grade are bound to live in isolation for four consecutive months in every year, meditating the mysteries revealed to them.

23. The Ninth Degree--the Sanctuary of the Gnosis--is synthetic. The prime duty of its members is to study and practise the theurgy and thaumaturgy of the grade; but in addition they must be prepared to act as direct representatives of the Supreme and Most Holy King, radiating his light upon the whole world. Yet, from the nature of their initiation, they must veil their glory in a cloud of darkness. They move unseen and unrecognized among the youngest of us, subtly and loftily leading us into the holy ineffable mysteries of the True Light.

24. The Supreme and Most Holy King is appointed by the O.H.O. His is the ultimate responsibility for all within his holy kingdom. The succession to the high office of O.H.O. is decided in a manner not here to be declared; but this you may learn, O Brother Magician, that he may be chosen even from the grade of a Minerval. And herein lieth a most sacred Mystery.

25. The Electoral College possesses one most singular power. Every eleven years, or in the case of a vacancy occurring, they choose two persons from the Ninth Degree, who are charged with the duty of Revolution.

26. It is the business of these persons constantly to criticise and oÿpose the acts of the Supreme and Most Holy King, whether or no they personally approve of them. Should he exhibit weakness, bodily, mental, or moral, they are empowered to appeal to the O.H.O. to depose him; but they, alone of all the members of the Order, are not eligible to the Succession.

27. The O.H.O., as the supreme authority in the Order, will act, in such an emergency, as he may see fit. He may himself be removed from office, but only by the unanimous vote of all the members of the Tenth Degree.

28. Of the Eleventh Degree, its powers, privileges, and qualifications, nothing whatever is said in any grade. It has no relation to the general plan of the Order, is inscrutable, and dwells in its own Palaces.

29. There are certain important financial obligations in various grades.

30. The Electoral College of the Senate is vowed to poverty. All property, earnings, or salaries are vested in or paid over to the Grand Treasurer General. The members subsist on the charity of the Order, which is extended to them in accordance with their original rank in life.

31. These remarks apply equally to the Supreme Grand Council, and all higher degrees.

32. In the Seventh Degree it is a qualification to vest some real property in the Order; and no one is admitted to this grade without this preliminary.

33. Those members of the Order who have given all to it must obtain the money for their initiation fees and subscriptions from the Third Triad, whose honour is thus concerned in the unselfish support of those who have abandoned all for their sakes.

34. The Grand Treasurer General is appointed by the Supreme and Most Holy King; he may be a member of any grade whatever; but he must, on accepting office, take the vow of poverty. His authority is absolute in all financial matters; but he is responsible to, and may be removed at will by, the Supreme and Most Holy King. He will appoint a committee to assist him and advise him in his work; and he will usually select one person from each of the governing bodies of the Order.

Such is a brief outline of the government of the O.T.O. It combines monarchy with democracy; it includes aristocracy, and conceals even the seeds of revolution, by which alone progress can be effected. Thus we balance the Triads, uniting the Three in One; thus we gather up all the threads of human passion and interest, and weave them into an harmonious tapestry, subtly and diligently with great art, that our Order may seem an ornament even to the Stars that are in the Heavens at Night. In our rainbow-coloured texture we set forth the glory of the whole Universe--See thou to it, brother Magician, that thine own thread be strong, and pure, and of a colour brilliant in itself, yet ready to mingle in all beauty with those of thy brethren!


 THE HIGH HISTORY OF



                              GOOD SIR PALAMEDES



                              THE SARACEN KNIGHT



                             AND OF HIS FOLLOWING



                            OF THE QUESTING BEAST

                                      1

                             BY ALEISTER CROWLEY



                          RIGHTLY SET FORTH IN RIME













                      TO ALLAN BENNETT



                  "Bhikkhu Ananda Metteyya"



      my good knight comrade in the quest, I dedicate this

      imperfect account of it, in some small recognition of

                   his suggestion of its form.



        MANDALAY, "November" 1905









        1WEH NOTE:  This work is read to best effect after Crowley's

"          "Confessions".  The sections are metaphoric accounts of Crowley's

          own search for enlightenment, sometimes with changed details or

          settings.  "E.g.", the general focus on Arthur that comes in at III

          should be taken to represent Crowley's lasting but frustrated

          desire to serve and save "all the Britains".  Acts of killing by

          the principal character represent renunciations of attachment.











                                   ARGUMENT



   i. Sir Palamede, the Saracen knight, riding on the shore of Syria, findeth

his father's corpse, around which an albatross circleth.  He approveth the

vengeance of his peers.

  ii. On the shore of Arabia he findeth his mother in the embrace of a loathly

negro beneath blue pavilions.  Her he slayeth, and burneth all that

encampment.

  iii. Sir Palamede is besieged in his castle by Severn mouth, and his wife

and son are slain.

  iv. Hearing that his fall is to be but the prelude to an attack of Camelot,

he maketh a desperate night sortie, and will traverse the wilds of Wales.

  v. At the end of his resources among the Welsh mountains, he is compelled to

put to death his only remaining child.  By this sacrifice he saves the world

of chivalry.

  vi. He having become an holy hermit, a certain dwarf, splendidly clothed,

cometh to Arthur's court, bearing tidings of a Questing Beast.  The knights

fail to lift him, this being the test of worthiness.

  vii. Lancelot findeth him upon Scawfell, clothed in his white beard.  he

returneth, and, touching the dwarf but with his finger, herleth him to the

heaven.

  viii. Sir Palamede, riding forth on the quest, seeth a Druid worship the sun

upon Stonehenge.  He rideth eastward, and findeth the sun setting in the west.

Furious he taketh a Viking ship, and by sword and whip fareth seaward.

  ix. Coming to India, he learneth that It glittereth.  Vainly fighting the

waves,the leaves, and the snows, he is swept in the Himalayas as by an

avalanche into a valley where dwell certain ascetics, who pelt him with their

eyeballs.

  x. Seeking It as Majesty, he chaseth an elephant in the Indian jungle.  The

elephant escapeth; but he, led to Trichinopoli by an Indian lad, seeth an

elephant forced to dance ungainly before the Mahalingam.

  xi. A Scythian sage declareth that It transcendeth Reason.  Therefore Sir

Palamede unreasonably decapitateth him.

  xii. An ancient hag prateth of It as Evangelical.  Her he hewed in pieces.

{v}

  xiii. At Naples he thinketh of the Beast as author of Evil, because Free of

Will.  The Beast, starting up, is slain by him with a poisoned arrow; but at

the moment of Its death It is reborn from the knight's own belly.

  xiv. At Rome he meeteth a red robber in a Hat, who speaketh nobly of It as

of a king-dove-lamb.  He chaseth and slayeth it; it proves but a child's toy.

  xv. In a Tuscan grove he findeth, from the antics of a Satyr, that the Gods

sill dwell with men.  Mistaking orgasm for ecstasty, he is found ridiculous.

  xvi. Baiting for It with gilded corn in a moonlit vale of Spain, he findeth

the bait stolen by bermin.

  xvii. In Crete a metaphysician weaveth a labyrinth.  Sir Palamede compelleth

him to pursue the quarry in this same fashion.  Running like hippogriffs, they

plunge over the precipice; and the hermit, dead, appears but a mangy ass.  Sir

Palamede, sore wounded, is borne by fishers to an hut.

  xviii. Sir Palamede noteth the swiftness of the Beast.  He therefore

climbeth many mountains of the Alps.  Yet can he not catch It; It outrunneth

him easily, and at last, stumbling, he falleth.

  xix. Among the dunes of Brittany he findeth a witch dancing and conjuring,

until she disappeareth in a blaze of light.  He then learneth music, from a

vile girl, until he is as skilful as Orpheus.  In Paris he playeth in a public

place.  The people, at first throwing him coins, soon desert him to follow a

foolish Egyptian wizard.  No Beast cometh to his call.

  xx. He argueth out that there can be but on Beast.  Following single tracks,

he at length findeth the quarry, but on pursuit It eldueth hi by multiplying

itself.  This on the wide plains of France.

  xxi. He gathereth an army sufficient to chase the whole herd.  In England's

midst they rush upon them; but the herd join together, leading on the kinghts,

who at length rush together into a "mˆl‚e," wherein all but Sir Palamede are

slain, while the Beast, as ever, standeth aloof, laughing.

  xxii. He argueth Its existence from design of the Cosmos, noting that Its

tracks form a geometrical figure.  But seeth that this depends upon his sense

of geometry; and is therefore no proof.  Meditating upon this likeness to

himself --- Its subjectivity, in short --- he seeth It in the Blue Lake.

Thither plunging, all is shattered.

  xxiii. Seeking It in shrines he findeth but a money-box; while they that

helped him (as they said) in his search, but robbed him.

  xxiv. Arguing Its obscurity, he seeketh It within the bowels of Etna,

cutting off all avenues of sense.  His own thoughts pursue him into madness.

{vi}

  xxv. Upon the Pacific Ocean, he, thinking that It is not-Self, throweth

himself into the sea.  But the Beast setteth him ashore.

  xxvi. Rowed by Kanakas to Japan, he praiseth the stability of Fuji-Yama.

But, an earthquake arising, the pilgrims are swallowed up.

  xxvii. Upon the Yang-tze-kiang he contemplateth immortal change.  Yet,

perceiving that the changes themselves constitute stability, he is again

baulked, and biddeth his men bear him to Egypt.

  xxviii. In an Egyptian temple he hath performed the Bloody Sacrifice, and

cursed Osiris.  Himself suffering that curse, he is still far from the

Attainment.

  xxix. In the land of Egypt he performeth many miracles.  But from the statue

of Memnon issueth the questing, and he is recalled from that illusion.

  xxx. Upon the plains of Chaldea he descendeth into the bowels of the earth,

where he beholdeth the Visible Image of the soul of Nature for the Beast.  Yet

Earth belcheth him forth.

  xxxi. In a slum city he converseth with a Rationalist.  Learning nothing,

nor even hearing the Beast, he goeth forth to cleanse himself.

  xxxii. Seeking to imitate the Beast, he goeth on all-fours, questing

horribly.  The townsmen cage him for a lunatic.  Nor can he imitate the

elusiveness of the Beast.  Yet at one note of that questing the prison is

shattered, and Sir Palamede rusheth forth free.

  xxiii. Sir Palamede hath gone to the shores of the Middle Sea to restore his

health.  There he practiseth devotion to the Beast, and becometh maudlin and

sentimental.  His knaves mocking him, he beateth one sore; from whose belly

issueth the questing.

  xxiv. Being retired into an hermitage in Fenland, he traverseth space upon

the back of an eagle.  He knoweth all things --- save only It.  And

incontinent beseedheth the eagle to set him down again.

  xxxv. He lectureth upon metaphysics --- for he is now totally insane --- to

many learned monks of Cantabrig.  They applaud him and detain him, though he

hath heard the question and would away.  But so feeble is he that he fleeth by

night.

  xxxvi. It hath often happened to Sir Palamede that he is haunted by a

shadow, the which he may not recognise.  But at last, in a sunlit wood, this

is discovered to be a certain hunchback, who doubteth whether there be at all

any Beast or any quest, or if the whole life of Sir Palamede be not a vain

illusion.  Him, without seeing to conquer with words, he slayeth incontinent.

  xxxvii. In a cave by the sea, feeding on limpets androots, Sir Palamede

abideth, sick unto death.  Himseemeth the Beast questeth within his own

bowels; he is the {vii} Beast.  Standing up, that he may enjoy the reward, he

findeth another answer to the riddle.  Yet abideth in the quest.

  xxxviii. Sir Palamede is confronted by a stranger knight, whose arms are his

own, as also his features.  This knight mocketh Sir OPalamede for an impudent

pretender, and impersonator of the chosen knight.  Sir Palamede in all

humility alloweth that there is no proof possible, and offereth ordeal of

battle, in which the stranger is slain.  Sir Palamede heweth him into the

smallest dust without pity.

  xxxix. In a green valley he obtaineth the vision of Pan.  Thereby he

regaineth all that he had expended of strength and youth; is gladdened

thereat, for he now devoteth again his life to the quest; yet more utterly

cast down than ever, for that this supreme vision is not the Beast.

  xl. Upon the loftiest summit of a great mountain he perceiveth Naught.  Even

this is, however, not the Beast.

  xli. Returning to Camelot to announce his failure, he maketh entrance into

the King's hall, whence he started out upon the quest.  The Beast cometh

nestling to him.  All the knights attain the quest.  The voice of Christ is

heard: "well done."  He sayeth that each failure is a step in the Path.  The

poet prayeth success therein for himself and his readers.









{viii}











                               THE HIGH HISTORY



                                   OF GOOD



                                SIR PALAMEDES



                   THE SARACEN KNIGHT; AND OF HIS FOLLOWING



                                      OF



                              THE QUESTING BEAST



















                                              I



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Rode by the marge of many a sea:

               He had slain a thousand evil men

                 And set a thousand ladies free.



               Armed to the teeth, the glittering kinght

                 Galloped along the sounding shore,

               His silver arms one lake of light,

                 Their clash one symphony of war.



               How still the blue enamoured sea

                 Lay in the blaze of Syria's noon!

               The eternal roll eternally

                 Beat out its monotonic tune.



               Sir Palamede the Saracen

                 A dreadful vision here espied,

               A sight abhorred of gods and men,

                 Between the limit of the tide.



               The dead man's tongue was torn away;

                 The dead man's throat was slit across;

               There flapped upon the putrid prey

                 A carrion, screaming albatross.       {3}



               So halted he his horse, and bent

                 To catch remembrance from the eyes

               That stared to God, whose ardour sent

                 His radiance from the ruthless skies.



               Then like a statue still he sate;

                 Nor quivered nerve, nor muscle stirred;

               While round them flapped insatiate

                 The fell, abominable bird.



               But the coldest horror drave the light

                 From knightly eyes.  How pale thy bloom,

               Thy blood, O brow whereon that night

                 Sits like a serpent on a tomb!



               For Palamede those eyes beheld

                 The iron image of his own;

               On those dead brows a fate he spelled

                 To strike a Gorgon into stone.



               He knew his father.  Still he sate,

                 Nor quivered nerve, nor muscle stirred;

               While round them flapped insatiate

                 The fell, abominable bird.



               The knight approves the justice done,

                 And pays with that his rowels' debt;

               While yet the forehead of the son

                 Stands beaded with an icy sweat.            {4}



               God's angel, standing sinister,

                 Unfurls this scroll --- a sable stain:

               "Who wins the spur shall ply the spur

                 Upon his proper heart and brain."



               He gave the sign of malison

                 On traitor knights and perjured men;

               And ever by the sea rode on

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.















                                             II



               BEHOLD!  Arabia's burning shore

                 Rings to the hoofs of many a steed.

               Lord of a legion rides to war

                 The indomitable Palamede.



               The Paynim fly; his troops delight

                 In murder of many a myriad men,

               Following exultant into fight

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.



               Now when a year and day are done

                 Sir Palamedes is aware

               Of blue pavilions in the sun,

                 And bannerets fluttering in the air.



               Forward he spurs; his armour gleams;

                 Then on his haunches rears the steed;

               Above the lordly silk there streams

                 The pennon of Sir Palamede!



               Aflame, a bridegroom to his spouse,

                 He rides to meet with galliard grace

               Some scion of his holy house,

                 Or germane to his royal race.      {6}



               But oh! the eyes of shame!  Beneath

                 The tall pavilion's sapphire shade

               There sport a band with wand and wreath,

                 Languorous boy and laughing maid.



               And in the centre is a sight

                 Of hateful love and shameless shame:

               A recreant Abyssianian knight

                 Sports grossly with a wanton dame.



               How black and swinish is the knave!

                 His hellish grunt, his bestial grin;

               Her trilling laugh, her gesture suave,

                 The cool sweat swimming on her skin!



               She looks and laughs upon the knight,

                 Then turns to buss the blubber mouth,

               Draining the dregs of that black blight

                 Of wine to ease their double drouth!



               God! what a glance!  Sir Palamede

                 Is stricken by the sword of fate:

               His mother it is in very deed

                 That gleeful goes the goatish gait.



               His mother it his, that pure and pale

                 Cried in the pangs that gave him birth;

               The holy image he would veil

                 From aught the tiniest taint of earth.  {7}



               She knows him, and black fear bedim

                 Those eyes; she offers to his gaze

               The blue-veined breasts that suckled him

                 In childhood's sweet and solemn days.



               Weeping she bares the holy womb!

                 Shrieks out the mother's last appeal:

               And reads irrevocable doom

                 In those dread eyes of ice and steel.



               He winds his horn: his warriors pour

                 In thousands on the fenceless foe;

               The sunset stains their hideous war

                 With crimson bars of after-glow.



               He winds his horn; the night-stars leap

                 To light; upspring the sisters seven;

               While answering flames illume the deep,

                 The blue pavilions blaze to heaven.



               Silent and stern the northward way

                 They ride; alone before his men

               Staggers through black to rose and grey

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen. {8}















                                             III



               THERE is a rock by Severn mouth

                 Whereon a mighty castle stands,

               Fronting the blue impassive South

                 And looking over lordly lands.



               Oh! high above the envious sea

                 This fortress dominates the tides;

               There, ill at heart, the chivalry

                 Of strong Sir Palamede abides.



               Now comes irruption from the fold

                 That live by murder: day by day

               The good knight strikes his deadly stroke;

                 The vultures claw the attended prey.



               But day by day the heathen hordes.

                 Gather from dreadful lands afar,

               A myriad myriad bows and swords,

                 As clouds that blot the morning star.



               Soon by an arrow from the sea

                 The Lady of Palamede is slain;

               His son, in sally fighting free,

                 Is struck through burgonet and brain.    {9}



               But day by day the foes increase,

                 Though day by day their thousands fall:

               Laughs the unshaken fortalice;

                 The good knights laugh no more at all.



               Grimmer than heather hordes can scowl,

                 The spectre hunger rages there;

               He passes like a midnight owl,

                 Hooting his heraldry, despair.



               The knights and squires of Palamede

                 Stalk pale and lean through court and hall;

               Though sharp and swift the archers speed

                 Their yardlong arrows from the wall.



               Their numbers thin; their strength decays;

                 Their fate is written plain to read:

               These are the dread deciduous days

                 Of iron-souled Sir Palamede.



               He hears the horrid laugh that rings

                 From camp to camp at night; he hears

               The cruel mouths of murderous kings

                 Laugh out one menace that he fears.



               No sooner shall the heroes die

                 Than, ere their flesh begin to rot,

               The heathen turns his raving eye

                 To Caerlon and Camelot.



               King Arthur in ignoble sloth

                 Is sunk, and dalliance with his dame,

               Forgetful of his knightly oath,

                 And careless of his kingly name.



               Befooled and cuckolded, the king

                 Is yet the king, the king most high;

               And on his life the hinges swing

                 That close the door of chivalry.



               'Sblood! shall it sink, and rise no more,

                 That blaze of time, when men were men?

               That is thy question, warrior

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!     {11}















                                             IV



               Now, with two score of men in life

                 And one fair babe, Sir Palamede

               Resolves one last heroic strife,

                 Attempts forlorn a desperate deed.



               At dead of night, a moonless night,

                 A night of winter storm, they sail

               In dancing dragons to the fight

                 With man and sea, with ghoul and gale.



               Whom God shall spare, ride, ride! (so springs

                 The iron order).  Let him fly

               On honour's steed with honour's wings

                 To warn the king, lest honour die!



               Then to the fury of the blast

                 Their fury adds a dreadful sting:

               The fatal die is surely cast.

                 To save the king --- to save the king!



               Hail! horror of the midnight surge!

                 The storms of death, the lashing gust,

               The doubtful gleam of swords that urge

                 Hot laughter with high-leaping lust! {12}



               Though one by one the heroes fall,

                 Their desperate way they slowly win,

               And knightly cry and comrade-call

                 Rise high above the savage din.



               Now, now they land, a dwindling crew;

                 Now, now fresh armies hem them round.

               They cleave their blood-bought avenue,

                 And cluster on the upper ground.



               Ah! but dawn's dreadful front uprears!

                 The tall towers blaze, to illume the fight;

               While many a myriad heathen spears

                 March northward at the earliest light.



               Falls thy last comrade at thy feet,

                 O lordly-souled Sir Palamede?

               Tearing the savage from his seat,

                 He leaps upon a coal-black steed.



               He gallops raging through the press:

                 The affrighted heathen fear his eye.

               There madness gleams, there masterless

                 The whirling sword shrieks shrill and high.



               The shrink, he gallops.  Closely clings

                 The child slung at his waist; and he

               Heeds nought, but gallops wide, and sings

                 Wild war-songs, chants of gramarye!  {13}



                 Sir Palamded the Saracen

                 Rides like a centaur mad with war;

               He sabres many a million men,

                 And tramples many a million more!



               Before him lies the untravelled land

                 Where never a human soul is known,

               A desert by a wizard banned,

                 A soulless wilderness of stone.



               Nor grass, nor corn, delight the vales;

                 Nor beast, nor bird, span space.  Immense,

               Black rain, grey mist, white wrath of gales,

                 Fill the dread armoury of sense.



               NOr shines the sun; nor moon, nor star

                 Their subtle light at all display;

               Nor day, nor night, dispute the scaur:

                 All's one intolerable grey.



               Black llyns, grey rocks, white hills of snow!

                 No flower, no colour: life is not.

               This is no way for men to go

                 From Severn-mouth to Camelot.



               Despair, the world upon his speed,

                 Drive (like a lion from his den

               Whom hunger hunts) the man at need,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {14}















                                              V



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath cast his sword and arms aside.

               To save the world of goodly men,

                 He sets his teeth to ride --- to ride!



               Three days: the black horse drops and dies.

                 The trappings furnish them a fire,

               The beast a meal.  With dreadful eyes

                 Stare into death the child, the sire.



               Six days: the gaunt and gallant knight

                 Sees hateful visions in the day.

               Where are the antient speed and might

                 Were wont to animate that clay?



               Nine days; they stumble on; no more

                 His strength avails to bear the child.

               Still hangs the mist, and still before

                 Yawns the immeasurable wild.



               Twelve days: the end.  Afar he spies

                 The mountains stooping to the plain;

               A little splash of sunlight lies

                 Beyond the everlasting rain.  {15}



               His strength is done; he cannot stir.

                 The child complains --- how feebly now!

               His eyes are blank; he looks at her;

                 The cold sweat gathers on his brow.



               To save the world --- three days away!

                 His life in knighthood's life is furled,

               And knighthood's life in his --- to-day! ---

                 His darling staked against the world!



               Will he die there, his task undone?

                 Or dare he live, at such a cost?

               He cries against the impassive sun:

                 The world is dim, is all but lost.



               When, with the bitterness of death

                 Cutting his soul, his fingers clench

               The piteous passage of her breath.

                 The dews of horror rise and drench



               Sir Palamede the Saracen.

                 Then, rising from the hideous meal,

               He plunges to the land of men

                 With nerves renewed and limbs of steel.



               Who is the naked man that rides

                 Yon tameless stallion on the plain,

               His face like Hell's?  What fury guides

                 The maniac beast without a rein?   {16}



               Who is the naked man that spurs

                 A charger into Camelot,

               His face like Christ's?  what glory stirs

                 The air around him, do ye wot?



               Sir Arthur arms him, makes array

                 Of seven times ten thousand men,

               And bids them follow and obey

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.    {17}















                                             VI



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                  The earth from murder hath released,

               Is hidden from the eyes of men.



               Sir Arthur sits again at feast.

                 The holy order burns with zeal:

               Its fame revives from west to east.



               Now, following Fortune's whirling-wheel,

                 There comes a dwarf to Arthur's hall,

               All cased in damnascenŠd steel.



               A sceptre and a golden ball

                 He bears, and on his head a crown;

               But on his shoulders drapes a pall



               Of velvet flowing sably down

                 Above his vest of cramoisie.

               Now doth the king of high renown



               Demand him of his dignity.

                 Whereat the dwarf begins to tell

               A quest of loftiest chivalry.  {18}



               Quod he: "By Goddes holy spell,

                 So high a venture was not known,

               Nor so divine a miracle.



               A certain beast there runs alone,

                 That ever in his belly sounds

               A hugeous cry, a monster moan,



               As if a thirty couple hounds

                 Quested with him.  Now God saith

               (I swear it by His holy wounds



               And by His lamentable death,

                 And by His holy Mother's face!)

               That he shall know the Beauteous Breath



               And taste the Goodly Gift of Grace

                 Who shall achieve this marvel quest."

               Then Arthur sterte up from his place,



               And sterte up boldly all the rest,

                 And sware to seek this goodly thing.

               But now the dwarf doth beat his breast,



               And speak on this wise to the king,

                 That he should worthy knight be found

               Who with his hands the dwarf should bring



               By might one span from off the ground.

                 Whereat they jeer, the dwarf so small,

               The knights so strong: the walls resound {19}



               With laughter rattling round the hall.

                 But Arthur first essays the deed,

               And may not budge the dwarf at all.



               Then Lancelot sware by Goddes reed,

                 And pulled so strong his muscel burst,

               His nose and mouth brake out a-bleed;



               Nor moved he thus the dwarf.  From first

                 To last the envious knights essayed,

               And all their malice had the worst,



               Till strong Sir Bors his prowess played ---

                 And all his might availŠd nought,.

               Now once Sir Bors had been betrayed



               To Paynim; him in traitrise caught,

                 They bound to four strong stallion steers,

               To tear asunder, as they thought,



               The paladin of Arthur's peers.

                 But he, a-bending, breaks the spine

               Of three, and on the fourth he rears



               His bulk, and rides away.  Divine

                 the wonder when the giant fails

               To stir the fatuous dwarf, malign



               Who smiles!  But Boors on Arthur rails

                 That never a knight is worth but one.

               "By Goddes death" (quod he), "what ails {20}



               Us marsh-lights to forget the sun?

                 There is one man of mortal men

               Worthy to win this benison,



               Sir Palamede the Saracen."

                 Then went the applauding murmur round:

               Sir Lancelot girt him there and then



               To ride to that enchanted ground

                 Where amid timeless snows the den

               Of Palamedes might be found.2           {21}







        2WEH NOTE:  See "Confessions".  This refers to that portion of

          Crowley's life spent at Boleskine as Alastor, the "Spirit of

          Solitude".









                                             VII



               BEHOLD Sir Lancelot of the Lake

                 Breasting the stony screes: behold

               How breath must fail and muscle ache



               Before he reach the icy fold

                 That Palamede the Saracen

               Within its hermitage may hold.



               At last he cometh to a den

                 Perched high upon the savage scaur,

               Remote from every haunt of men,



               From every haunt of life afar.

                 There doth he find Sit Palamede

               Sitting as steadfast as a star.



               Scarcely he knew the knight indeed,

                 For he was compassed in a beard

               White as the streams of snow that feed



               The lake of Gods and men revered

                 That sitteth upon Caucasus.

               So muttered he a darkling weird,  {22}



               And smote his bosom murderous.

                 His nails like eagles' claws were grown;

               His eyes were wild and dull; but thus



               Sir Lancelot spake: "Thy deeds atone

                 By knightly devoir!"  He returned

               That "While the land was overgrown



               With giant, fiend, and ogre burned

                 My sword; but now the Paynim bars

               Are broke, and men to virtue turned:



               Therefore I sit upon the scars

                 Amid my beard, even as the sun

               Sits in the company of the stars!"



               Then Lancelot bade this deed be done,

                 The achievement of the Questing Beast.

               Which when he spoke that holy one



               Rose up, and gat him to the east

                 With Lancelot; when as they drew

               Unto the palace and the feast



               He put his littlest finger to

                 The dwarf, who rose to upper air,

               Piercing the far eternal blue



               Beyond the reach of song or prayer.

                 Then did Sir Palamede amend

               His nakedness, his horrent hair,   {23}



               His nails, and made his penance end,

                 Clothing himself in steel and gold,

               Arming himself, his life to spend



               IN vigil cold and wandering bold,

                 Disdaining song and dalliance soft,

               Seeking one purpose to behold,



               And holding ever that aloft,

                 Nor fearing God, nor heeding men.

               So thus his hermit habit doffed

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {24}















                                            VIII



               KNOW ye where Druid dolmens rise

                 In Wessex on the widow plain?

               Thither Sir Palamedes plies



               The spur, and shakes the rattling rein.

                 He questions all men of the Beast.

               None answer.  Is the quest in vain?



               With oaken crown there comes a priest

                 In samite robes, with hazel wand,

               And worships at the gilded East.



               Ay! thither ride!  The dawn beyond

                 Must run the quarry of his quest.

               He rode as he were wood or fond,



               Until at night behoves him rest.

                 --- He saw the gilding far behind

               Out on the hills toward the West!



               With aimless fury hot and blind

                 He flung him on a Viking ship.

               He slew the rover, and inclined  {25}



               The seamen to his stinging whip.

                 Accurs'd of God, despising men,

               Thy reckless oars in ocean dip,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!    {26}















                                             IX



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Sailed ever with a favouring wind

               Unto the smooth and swarthy men



               That haunt the evil shore of Hind:

                 He queried eager of the quest.

               "Ay! Ay!" their cunning sages grinned:



               "It shines!  It shines!  Guess thou the rest!

                 For naught but this our Rishis know."

               Sir Palamede his way addressed



               Unto the woods: they blaze and glow;

                 His lance stabs many a shining blade,

               His sword lays many a flower low



               That glittering gladdened in the glade.

                 He wrote himself a wanton ass,

               And to the sea his traces laid,



               Where many a wavelet on the glass

                 His prowess knows.  But deep and deep

               His futile feet in fury pass,   {27}



               Until one billow curls to leap,

                 And flings him breathless on the shore

               Half drowned.  O fool! his God's asleep,



               His armour in illusion's war

                 It self illusion, all his might

               And courage vain.  Yet ardours pour



               Through every artery.  The knight

                 Scales the Himalaya's frozen sides,

               Crowned with illimitable light,



               And there in constant war abides,

                 Smiting the spangles of the snow;

               Smiting until the vernal tides



               Of earth leap high; the steady flow

                 Of sunlight splits the icy walls:

               They slide, they hurl the knight below.



               Sir Palamede the mighty falls

                 Into an hollow where there dwelt

               A bearded crew of monachals



               Asleep in various visions spelt

                 By mystic symbols unto men.

               But when a foreigner they smelt



               They drive him from their holy den,

                 And with their glittering eyeballs pelt

               Sir Palamede the Saracen.3   {28}







        3WEH NOTE:  In other words, when Crowley went searching for an

          eastern master in and about the Indian sub-continent, the local

          teachers just stared at him until he went away.









                                              X



               Now findeth he, as all alone

                 He moves about the burning East,

               The mighty trail of some unknown,

                 But surely some majestic beast.



               So followeth he the forest ways,

                 Remembering his knightly oath,

               And through the hot and dripping days

                 Ploughs through the tangled undergrowth.



               Sir Palamede the Saracen

                 Came on a forest pool at length,

               Remote from any mart of men,

                 Where there disported in his strength



               The lone and lordly elephant.

                 Sir Palamede his forehead beat.

               "O amorous!  O militant!

                 O lord of this arboreal seat!"



               Thus worshipped he, and stalking stole

                 Into the presence: he emerged.

               The scent awakes the uneasy soul

                 Of that Majestic One: upsurged {29}



               The monster from the oozy bed,

                 And bounded through the crashing glades.

               --- but now a staring savage head

                 Lurks at him through the forest shades.



               This was a naked Indian,

                 Who led within the city gate

               The fooled and disappointed man,

                 Already broken by his fate.



               Here were the brazen towers, and here

                 the scupltured rocks, the marble shrine

               Where to a tall black stone they rear

                 The altars due to the divine.



               The God they deem in sensual joy

                 Absorbed, and silken dalliance:

               To please his leisure hours a boy

                 Compels an elephant to dance.



               So majesty to ridicule

                 Is turned.  To other climes and men

               Makes off that strong, persistent fool

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.   {30}















                                             XI



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath hied him to an holy man,

               Sith he alone of mortal men



               Can help him, if a mortal can.

                 (So tell him all the Scythian folk.)

               Wherefore he makes a caravan,



               And finds him.  When his prayers invoke

                 The holy knowledge, saith the sage:

               "This Beast is he of whom there spoke



               The prophets of the Golden Age:

                 'Mark! all that mind is, he is not.'"

               Sir Palamede in bitter rage



               Sterte up: "Is this the fool, 'Od wot,

                 To see the like of whom I came

               From castellated Camelot?"



               The sage with eyes of burning flame

                 Cried: "Is it not a miracle?

               Ay! for with folly travelleth shame,  {31}



               And thereto at the end is Hell

                 Believe!  And why believe?  Because

               It is a thing impossible."



               Sir Palamede his pulses pause.

                 "It is not possible" (quod he)

               "That Palamede is wroth, and draws



               His sword, decapitating thee.

                 By parity of argument

               This deed of blood must surely be."



               With that he suddenly besprent

                 All Scythia with the sage's blood,

               And laughting in his woe he went



               Unto a further field and flood,

                 Aye guided by that wizard's head,

               That like a windy moon did scud



               Before him, winking eyes of red

                 And snapping jaws of white: but then

               What cared for living or for dead

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen?   {32}















                                             XII



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Follows the Head to gloomy halls

                 Of sterile hate, with icy walls.

               A woman clucking like a hen

                 Answers his lordly bugle-calls.



               She rees him in ungainly rede

                 Of ghosts and virgins, doves and wombs,

                 Of roods and prophecies and tombs ---

               Old pagan fables run to seed!

                 Sir Palamede with fury fumes.



               So doth the Head that jabbers fast

                 Against that woman's tangled tale.

                 (God's patience at the end must fail!)

               Out sweeps the sword --- the blade hath passed

                 Through all her scraggy farthingale.



               "This chatter lends to Thought a zest"

                 (Quod he), "but I am all for Act.

                 Sit here, until your Talk hath cracked

               The addled egg in Nature's nest!"

                 With that he fled the dismal tract.  {33}



               He was so sick and ill at ease

                 And hot against his fellow men,

                 He thought to end his purpose then ---

               Nay! let him seek new lands and seas,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!



               {34}















                                            XIII



               SIR PALAMEDE is come anon

                 Into a blue delicious bay.

               A mountain towers thereupon,

               Wherein some fiend of ages gone



               Is whelmed by God, yet from his breast

                 Spits up the flame, and ashes grey.

               Hereby Sir Palamede his quest

               Pursues withouten let or rest.



               Seeing the evil mountain be,

                 Remembering all his evil years,

               He knows the Questing Beast runs free ---

               Author of Evil, then, is he!



               Whereat immediate resounds

                 The noise he hath sought so long: appears

               There quest a thirty couple hounds

               Within its belly as it bounds.



               Lifting his eyes, he sees at last

                 The beast he seeks: 'tis like an hart.

               Ever it courseth far and fast.

               Sir Palamede is sore aghast,  {35}



               But plucking up his will, doth launch

                 A might poison-dippŠd dart:

               It fareth ever sure and staunch,

               And smiteth him upon the haunch.



               Then as Sir Palamede overhauls

                 The stricken quarry, slack it droops,

               Staggers, and final down it falls.

               Triumph!  Gape wide, ye golden walls!



               Lift up your everlasting doors,

                 O gates of Camelot!  See, he swoops

               Down on the prey!  The life-blood pours:

               The poison works: the breath implores



               Its livelong debt from heart and brain.

                 Alas! poor stag, thy day is done!

               The gallant lungs gasp loud in vain:

               Thy life is spilt upon the plain.



               Sir Palamede is stricken numb

                 As one who, gazing on the sun,

               Sees blackness gather.  Blank and dumb,

               The good knight sees a thin breath come



               Out of his proper mouth, and dart

                 Over the plain: he seeth it

               Sure by some black magician art

               Shape ever closer like an hart:   {36}



               While such a questing there resounds

                 As God had loosed the very Pit,

               Or as a thirty couple hounds

               Are in its belly as it bounds!



               Full sick at heart, I ween, was then

                 The loyal knight, the weak of wit,

               The butt of lewd and puny men,

               Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {37}















                                             XIV



               NORTHWARD the good knight gallops fast,

                 Resolved to seek his foe at home,

               When rose that Vision of the past,

                 The royal battlements of Rome,

                 A ruined city, and a dome.



               There in the broken Forum sat

               A red-robed robber in a Hat.

                 "Whither away, Sir Knight, so fey?"

               "Priest, for the dove on Ararat

                 I could not, nor I will not, stay!"



               "I know thy quest.  Seek on in vain

                 A golden hart with silver horns!

               Life springeth out of divers pains.

                 What crown the King of Kings adorns?

                 A crown of gems?  A crown of thorns!



               The Questing Beast is like a king

               In face, and hath a pigeon's wing

                 And claw; its body is one fleece

               Of bloody white, a lamb's in spring.

                 Enough.  Sir Knight, I give thee peace."  {38}



               The Knight spurs on, and soon espies

                 A monster coursing on the plain.

               he hears the horrid questing rise

                 And thunder in his weary brain.

                 This time, to slay it or be slain!



               Too easy task!  The charger gains

               Stride after stride with little pains

                 Upon the lumbering, flapping thing.

               He stabs the lamb, and splits the brains

                 Of that majestic-seeming king.



               He clips the wing and pares the claw ---

                 What turns to laughter all his joy,

               To wondering ribaldry his awe?

                 The beast's a mere mechanic toy,

                 Fit to amuse an idle boy!  {39}















                                             XV



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath come to an umbrageous land

               Where nymphs abide, and Pagan men.

                 The Gods are nigh, say they, at hand.

               How warm a throb from Venus stirs

               The pulses of her worshippers!



               Nor shall the Tuscan God be found

                 Reluctant from the altar-stone:

               His perfume shall delight the ground,

                 His presence to his hold be known

               In darkling grove and glimmering shrine ---

               O ply the kiss and pour the wine!



               Sir Palamede is fairly come

                 Into a place of glowing bowers,

               Where all the Voice of Time is dumb:

                 Before an altar crowned with flowers

               He seeth a satyr fondly dote

               And languish on a swan-soft goat.



               Then he in mid-caress desires

                 The ear of strong Sir Palamede.   {40}

               "We burn," qouth he, "no futile fires,

                 Nor play upon an idle reed,

               Nor penance vain, nor fatuous prayers ---

               The Gods are ours, and we are theirs."



               Sir Palamedes plucks the pipe

                 The satyr tends, and blows a trill

               So soft and warm, so red and ripe,

                 That echo answers from the hill

               In eager and voluptuous strain,

               While grows upon the sounding plain



               A gallop, and a questing turned

                 To one profound melodious bay.

               Sir Palamede with pleasure burned,

                 And bowed him to the idol grey

               That on the altar sneered and leered

               With loose red lips behind his beard.



               Sir Palamedes and the Beast

                 Are woven in a web of gold

               Until the gilding of the East

                 Burns on the wanton-smiling wold:

               And still Sir Palamede believed

               His holy quest to be achieved!



               But now the dawn from glowing gates

                 Floods all the land: with snarling lip

               The Beast stands off and cachinnates.

                 That stings the good knight like a whip,  {41}

               As suddenly Hell's own disgust

               Eats up the joy he had of lust.



               The brutal glee his folly took

                 For holy joy breaks down his brain.

               Off bolts the Beast: the earth is shook

                 As out a questing roars again,

               As if a thirty couple hounds

               Are in its belly as it bounds!



               The peasants gather to deride

                 The knight: creation joins in mirth.

               Ashamed and scorned on every side,

                 There gallops, hateful to the earth,

               The laughing-stock of beasts and men,

               Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {42}















                                             XVI



               WHERE shafts of moonlight splash the vale,

                 Beside a stream there sits and strains

               Sir Palamede, with passion pale,



               And haggard from his broken brains.

                 Yet eagerly he watches still

               A mossy mound where dainty grains



               Of gilded corn their beauty spill

                 To tempt the quarry to the range

               Of Palamede his archer skill.



               All might he sits, with ardour strange

                 And hope new-fledged.  A gambler born

               Aye things the luck one day must change,



               Though sense and skill he laughs to scorn.

                 so now there rush a thousand rats

               In sable silence on the corn.



               They sport their square or shovel hats,

                 A squeaking, tooth-bare brotherhood,

               Innumerable as summer gnats  {43}



               Buzzing some streamlet through a wood.

                 Sir Palamede grows mighty wroth,

               And mutters maledictions rude,



               Seeing his quarry far and loth

                 And thieves despoiling all the bait.

               Now, careless of the knightly oath,



               The sun pours down his eastern gate.

                 The chase is over: see ye then,

               Coursing afar, afoam at fate

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!  {44}















                                            XVII



               SIR PALAMEDE hath told the tale

                 Of this misfortune to a sage,

               How all his ventures nought avail,



               And all his hopes dissolve in rage.

                 "Now by thine holy beard," quoth he,

               "And by thy venerable age



               I charge thee this my riddle ree."

                 Then said that gentle eremite:

               "This task is easy unto me!



               Know then the Questing Beast aright!

                 One is the Beast, the Questing one:

               And one with one is two, Sir Knight!



               Yet these are one in two, and none

                 disjoins their substance (mark me well!),

               Confounds their persons.  Rightly run



               Their attributes: immeasurable,

                 Incomprehensibundable,

               Unspeakable, inaudible, {45}



               Intangible, ingustable,

                 Insensitive to human smell,

               Invariable, implacable,



               Invincible, insciable,

                 Irrationapsychicable,

               Inequilegijurable,



               Immamemimomummable.

                 Such is its nature: without parts,

               Places, or persons, plumes, or pell,



               Having nor lungs nor lights nor hearts,

                 But two in one and one in two.

               Be he accursŠd that disparts



               Them now, or seemeth so to do!

                 Him will I pile the curses on;

               Him will I hand, or saw him through,



               Or burn with fire, who doubts upon

                 This doctrine, hotototon spells

               The holy word otototon."



               The poor Sir Palamedes quells

                 His rising spleen; he doubts his ears.

               "How may I catch the Beast?" he yells.



               The smiling sage rebukes his fears:

                 "'Tis easier than all, Sir Knight!

               By simple faith the Beast appears.  {46}



               By simple faith, not heathen might,

                 Catch him, and thus achieve the quest!"

               Then quoth that melancholy wight:



               "I will believe!"  The hermit blessed

                 His convert: on the horizon

               Appears the Beast.  "To thee the rest!"



               He cries, to urge the good knight on.

                 But no!  Sir Palamedes grips

               The hermit by the woebegone



               Bear of him; then away he rips,

                 Wood as a maniac, to the West,

               Where down the sun in splendour slips,



               And where the quarry of the quest

                 Canters.  They run like hippogriffs!

               Like men pursued, or swine possessed,



               Over the dizzy Cretan cliffs

                 they smash.  And lo! it comes to pass

               He sees in no dim hieroglyphs,



               In knowledge easy to amass,

                 This hermit (while he drew his breath)

               Once dead is like a mangy ass.



               Bruised, broken, but not bound to death,

                 He calls some passing fishermen

               To bear him.  Presently he saith:  {47}



               "Bear me to some remotest den

                 To Heal me of my ills immense;

                 For now hath neither might nor sense

               Sir Palamede the Saracen."   {48}















                                            XVIII



               SIR PALAMEDES for a space

                 Deliberates on his rustic bed.

               "I lack the quarry's awful pace"



               (Quod he); "my limbs are slack as lead."

                 So, as he gets his strength, he seeks

               The castles where the pennons red



               Of dawn illume their dreadful peaks.

                 There dragons stretch their horrid coils

               Adown the winding clefts and creeks:



               From hideous mouths their venom boils.

                 But Palamede their fury 'scapes,

               Their malice by his valour foils,



               Climbing aloft by bays and capes

                 Of rock and ice, encounters oft

               The loathly sprites, the misty shapes



               Of monster brutes that lurk aloft.

                 O! well he works: his youth returns

               His heart revives: despair is doffed {49}



               And eager hope in brilliance burns

                 Within the circle of his brows

               As fast he flies, the snow he spurns.



               Ah! what a youth and strength he vows

                 To the achievement of the quest!

               And now the horrid height allows



               His mastery: day by day from crest

                 To crest he hastens: faster fly

               His feet: his body knows not rest,



               Until with magic speed they ply

                 Like oars the snowy waves, surpass

               In one day's march the galaxy



               Of Europe's starry mountain mass.

                 "Now," quoth he, "let me find the quest!"

               The Beast sterte up.  Sir Knight, Alas!



               Day after day they race, nor rest

                 Till seven days were fairly done.

               Then doth the Questing Marvel crest



               The ridge: the knight is well outrun.

                 Now, adding laughter to its din,

               Like some lewd comet at the sun,



               Around the panting paladin

                 It runs with all its splendid speed.

               Yet, knowing that he may not win,  {50}



               He strains and strives in very deed,

                 So that at last a boulder trips

               The hero, that he bursts a-bleed,



               And sanguine from his bearded lips

                 The torrent of his being breaks.

               The Beast is gone: the hero slips



               Down to the valley: he forsakes

                 The fond idea (every bone

               In all his body burns and aches)



               By speed to attain the dear Unknown,

                 By force to achieve the great Beyond.

               Yet from that brain may spring full-grown

                 Another folly just as fond.  {51}















                                             XIX



               THE knight hath found a naked girl

                 Among the dunes of Breton sand.

               She spinneth in a mystic whirl,



               And hath a bagpipe in her hand,

                 Wherefrom she draweth dismal groans

               The while her maddening saraband



               She plies, and with discordant tones

                 Desires a certain devil-grace.

               She gathers wreckage-wood, and bones



               Of seamen, jetsam of the place,

                 And builds therewith a fire, wherein

               She dances, bounding into space



               Like an inflated ass's skin.

                 She raves, and reels, and yells, and whirls

               So that the tears of toil begin



               To dew her breasts with ardent pearls.

                 Nor doth she mitigate her dance,

               The bagpipe ever louder skirls,  {52}



               Until the shapes of death advance

                 And gather round her, shrieking loud

               And wailing o'er the wide expanse



               Of sand, the gibbering, mewing crowd.

                 Like cats, and apes, they gather close,

               Till, like the horror of a cloud



               Wrapping the flaming sun with rose,

                 They hide her from the hero's sight.

               Then doth he must thereat morose,



               When in one wild cascade of light

                 The pageant breaks, and thunder roars:

               Down flaps the loathly wing of night.



               He sees the lonely Breton shores

                 Lapped in the levin: then his eyes

               See how she shrieking soars and soars



               Into the starless, stormy skies.

                 Well! well! this lesson will he learn,

               How music's mellowing artifice



               May bid the breast of nature burn

                 And call the gods from star and shrine.

               So now his sounding courses turn



               To find an instrument divine

                 Whereon he may pursue his quest.

               How glitter green his gleeful eyne {53}



               When, where the mice and lice infest

                 A filthy hovel, lies a wench

               Bearing a baby at her breast,



               Drunk and debauched, one solid stench,

                 But carrying a silver lute.

               'Boardeth her, nor doth baulk nor blench,



               And long abideth brute by brute

                 Amid the unsavoury denzens,

               Until his melodies uproot



               The oaks, lure lions from their dens,

                 Turn rivers back,and still the spleen

               Of serpents and of Saracens.



               Thus then equipped, he quits the quean,

                 And in a city fair and wide

               Calls up with music wild and keen



               The Questing Marvel to his side.

                 Then do the sportful city folk

               About his lonely stance abide:



               Making their holiday, they joke

                 The melancholy ass: they throw

               Their clattering coppers in his poke.



               so day and night they come and go,

                 But never comes the Questing Beast,

               Nor doth that laughing people know  {54}



               How agony's unleavening yeast

                 Stirs Palamede.  Anon they tire,

               And follow an Egyptian priest



               Who boasts him master of the fire

                 To draw down lightning, and invoke

               The gods upon a sandal pyre,



               And bring up devils in the smoke.

                 Sir Palamede is all alone,

               Wrapped in his misery like a cloak,



               Despairing now to charm the Unknown.

                 So arms and horse he takes again.

               Sir Palamede hath overthrown



               The jesters.  Now the country men,

                 Stupidly staring, see at noon

               Sir Palamede the Saracen



               A-riding like an harvest moon

                 In silver arms, with glittering lance,

               With plumŠd helm, and wingŠd shoon,

                 Athwart the admiring land of France.  {55}

















                                             XX



               SIR PALAMEDE hat reasoned out

               Beyond the shadow of a doubt

                 That this his Questing Beast is one;

               For were it Beasts, he must suppose

               An earlier Beast to father those.

                 So all the tracks of herds that run



               Into the forest he discards,

               And only turns his dark regards

                 On single prints, on marks unique.

               Sir Palamede doth now attain

               Unto a wide and grassy plain,

                 Whereon he spies the thing to seek.



               Thereat he putteth spur to horse

               And runneth him a random course,

                 The Beast a-questing aye before.

               But praise to good Sir Palamede!

               'Hath gotten him a fairy steed

                 Alike for venery and for war,



               So that in little drawing near

               The quarry, lifteth up his spear

                 To run him of his malice through.  {56}

               With that the Beast hopes no escape,

               Dissolveth all his lordly shape,

                 Splitteth him sudden into two.



               Sir Palamede in fury runs

               Unto the nearer beast, that shuns

                 The shock, and splits, and splits again,

               Until the baffled warrior sees

               A myriad myriad swarms of these

                 A-questing over all the plain.



               The good knight reins his charger in.

               "Now, by the faith of Paladin!

                 The subtle quest at last I hen."

               Rides off the Camelot to plight

               The faith of many a noble knight,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {57}















                                             XXI



               Now doth Sir Palamede advance

               The lord of many a sword and lance.

                 in merrie England's summer sun

               Their shields and arms a-glittering glance



               And laugh upon the mossy mead.

               Now winds the horn of Palamede,

                 As far upon the horizon

               He spies the Questing Beast a-feed.



               With loyal craft and honest guile

               They spread their ranks for many a mile.

                 for when the Beast hat heard the horn

               he practiseth his ancient wile,



               And many a myriad beasts invade

               The stillness of that armŠd glade.

                 Now every knight to rest hath borne

               His lance, and given the accolade,



               And run upon a beast: but they Slip from the fatal point away

                 And course about, confusing all

               That gallant concourse all the day,  {58}



               Leading them ever to a vale

               With hugeous cry and monster wail.

                 then suddenly their voices fall,

               And in the park's resounding pale



               Only the clamour of the chase

               is heard: oh! to the centre race

                 The unsuspicious knights: but he

               The Questing Beast his former face



               Of unity resumes: the course

               Of warriors shocks with man and horse.

                 In mutual madness swift to see

               They shatter with unbridled force



               One on another: down they go

               Swift in stupendous overthrow.

                 Out sword! out lance!  Curiass and helm

               Splinter beneath the knightly blow.



               they storm, they charge, they hack and hew,

               They rush and wheel the press athrough.

                 The weight, the murder, over whelm

               One, two, and all.  Nor silence knew



               His empire till Sir Palamede

               (The last) upon his fairy steed

                 Struck down his brother; then at once

               Fell silence on the bloody mead,  {59}



               Until the questing rose again.

               For there, on that ensanguine plain

                 Standeth a-laughing at the dunce

               The single Beast they had not slain.



               There, with his friends and followers dead,

               His brother smitten through the head,

                 Himself sore wounded in the thigh,

               Weepeth upon the deed of dread,



               Alone among his murdered men,

               The champion fool, as fools were then,

                 Utterly broken, like to die,

               Sir Palamede the Saracen.  {60}















                                            XXII



               SIR PALAMEDE his wits doth rally,

                 Nursing his wound beside a lake

               Within an admirable valley,



               Whose walls their thirst on heaven slake,

                 And in the moonlight mystical

               Their countless spears of silver shake.



               Thus reasons he: "In each and all

                 Fyttes of this quest the quarry's track

               Is wondrous geometrical.



               In spire and whorl twists out and back

                 The hart with fair symmetric line.

               And lo! the grain of wit I lack ---



               This Beast is Master of Design.

                 So studying each twisted print

               In this mirific mind of mine,



               My heart may happen on a hint."

                 Thus as the seeker after gold

               Eagerly chases grain or glint,  {61}



               The knight at last wins to behold

                 The full conception.  Breathless-blue

               The fair lake's mirror crystal-cold



               Wherein he gazes, keen to view

                 The vast Design therein, to chase

               The Beast to his last avenue.



               then --- O thou gosling scant of grace!

                 The dream breaks, and Sir Palamede

               Wakes to the glass of his fool's face!



               "Ah, 'sdeath!" (quod he), "by thought and deed

                 This brute for ever mocketh me.

               The lance is made a broken reed,



               The brain is but a barren tree ---

                 For all the beautiful Design

               Is but mine own geometry!"



               With that his wrath brake out like wine.

                 He plunged his body in, and shattered

               The whole delusion asinine.



               All the false water-nymphs that flattered

                 He killed with his resounding curse ---

               O fool of God! as if it mattered!



               So, nothing better, rather worse,

                 Out of the blue bliss of the pool

                 Came dripping that inveterate fool!  {62}















                                            XXIII



               NOW still he holdeth argument:

                 "So grand a Beast must house him well;

               hence, now beseemeth me frequent

                 Cathedral, palace, citadel."



               So, riding fast among the flowers

                 Far off, a Gothic spire he spies,

               That like a gladiator towers

                 Its spear-sharp splendour to the skies.



               The people cluster round, acclaim:

                 "Sir Knight, good knight, thy quest is won.

               Here dwells the Beast in orient flame,

                 Spring-sweet, and swifter than the sun!"



               Sir Palamede the Saracen

                 Spurs to the shrine, afire to win

               The end; and all the urgent men

                 Throng with him eloquently in.



               Sir Palamede his vizor drops;

                 He lays his loyal lance in rest;

               He drives the rowels home --- he stops!

                 Faugh! but a black-mouthed money-chest!  {63}



               He turns --- the friendly folk are gone,

                 gone with his sumpter-mules and train

               Beyond the infinite horizon

                 Of all he hopes to see again!



               His brain befooled, his pocket picked ---

                 How the Beast cachinnated then,

               Far from that doleful derelict

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!  {64}















                                            XXIV



               "ONE thing at least" (quoth Palamede),

                 "Beyond dispute my soul can see:

               This Questing Beast that mocks my need

                 Dwelleth in deep obscurity."



               So delveth he a darksome hole

                 Within the bowels of Etna dense,

               Closing the harbour of his soul

                 To all the pirate-ships of sense.



               And now the questing of the Beast

                 Rolls in his very self, and high

               Leaps his while heart in fiery feast

                 On the expected ecstasy.



               But echoing from the central roar

                 Reverberates many a mournful moan,

               And shapes more mystic than before

                 Baffle its formless monotone!



               Ah! mocks him many a myriad vision,

                 Warring within him masterless,

               Turning devotion to derision,

                 Beatitude to beastliness.  {65}



               They swarm, they grow, they multiply;

                 The Strong knight's brain goes all a-swim,

               Paced by that maddening minstrelsy,

                 Those dog-like demons hunting him.



               The last bar breaks; the steel will snaps;

                 The black hordes riot in his brain;

               A thousand threatening thunder-claps

                 Smite him --- insane --- insane --- insane!



               His muscles roar with senseless rage;

                 The pale knight staggers, deathly sick;

               Reels to the light that sorry sage,

                 Sir Palamede the Lunatick.  {66}















                                             XXV



               A SAVAGE sea without a sail,

                 Grey gulphs and green a-glittering,

               Rare snow that floats --- a vestal veil

                 Upon the forehead of the spring.



               Here in a plunging galleon

                 Sir Palamede, a listless drone,

               Drifts desperately on --- and on ---

                 And on --- with heart and eyes of stone.



               The deep-scarred brain of him is healed

                 With wind and sea and star and sun,

               The assoiling grace that God revealed

                 For gree and bounteous benison.



               Ah! still he trusts the recreant brain,

                 Thrown in a thousand tourney-justs;

               Still he raves on in reason-strain

                 With senseless "oughts" and fatuous "musts."



               "All the delusions" (argueth

                 The ass), "all uproars, surely rise

               From that curst Me whose name is Death,

                 Whereas the Questing beast belies  {67}



               The Me with Thou; then swift the quest

                 To slay the Me should hook the Thou."

               With that he crossed him, brow and breast,

                 And flung his body from the prow.



               An end?  Alas! on silver sand

                 Open his eyes; the surf-rings roar.

               What snorts there, swimming from the land?

                 The Beast that brought him to the shore!



               "O Beast!" quoth purple Palamede,

                 "A monster strange as Thou am I.

               I could not live before, indeed;

                 And not I cannot even die!



               Who chose me, of the Table Round

                 By miracle acclaimed the chief?

               Here, waterlogged and muscle-bound,

                 Marooned upon a coral reef!"  {68}















                                            XXVI



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath gotten him a swift canoe,

               Paddled by stalwart South Sea men.



               They cleave the oily breasts of blue,

                 Straining toward the westering disk

               Of the tall sun; they battle through



               Those weary days; the wind is brisk;

                 The stars are clear; the moon is high.

               Now, even as a white basilisk



               That slayeth all men with his eye,

                 Stands up before them tapering

               The cone of speechless sanctity.



               Up, up its slopes the pilgrims swing,

                 Chanting their pagan gramarye

               Unto the dread volcano-king.



               "Now, then, by Goddes reed!" quod he,

                 "Behold the secret of my quest

               In this far-famed stability! {69}



               For all these Paynim knights may rest

                 In the black bliss they struggle to."

               But from the earth's full-flowered breast



               Brake the blind roar of earthquake through,

                 Tearing the belly of its mother,

               Engulphing all that heathen crew,



               That cried and cursed on one another.

                 Aghast he standeth, Palamede!

               For twinned with Earthquake laughs her brother



               The Questing Beast.  As Goddes reed

                 Sweats blood for sin, so now the heart

               Of the good knight begins to bleed.



               Of all the ruinous shafts that dart

                 Within his liver, this hath plied

               The most intolerable smart.



               "By Goddes wounds!" the good knight cried,

                 "What is this quest, grown daily dafter,

               Where nothing --- nothing --- may abide?



               Westward!"  They fly, but rolling after

                 Echoes the Beast's unsatisfied

               And inextinguishable laughter!  {70}















                                            XXVII



               SIR PALAMEDE goes aching on

                 (Pox of despair's dread interdict!)

               Aye to the western horizon,



               Still meditating, sharp and strict,

                 Upon the changes of the earth,

               Its towers and temples derelict,



               The ready ruin of its mirth,

                 The flowers, the fruits, the leaves that fall,

               The joy of life, its growing girth ---



               And nothing as the end of all.

                 Yea, even as the Yang-tze rolled

               Its rapids past him, so the wall



               Of things brake down; his eyes behold

                 The mighty Beast serenely couched

               Upon its breast of burnished gold.



               "Ah! by Christ's blood!" (his soul avouched),

                 "Nothing but change (but change!) abides.

               Death lurks, a leopard curled and crouched,  {71}



               In all the seasons and the tides.

                 But ah! the more it changed and changed" ---

               (The good knight laughed to split his sides!)



               "What?  Is the soul of things deranged?

                 The more it changed, and rippled through

               Its changes, and still changed, and changed,



               The liker to itself it grew.

                 Bear me," he cried, "to purge my bile

               To the old land of Hormakhu,



               That I may sit and curse awhile

                 At all these follies fond that pen

               My quest about --- on, on to Nile!



               Tread tenderly, my merry men!

                 For nothing is so void and vile

               As Palamede the Saracen."  {72}















                                           XXVIII



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath clad him in a sable robe;

               Hath curses, writ by holy men

                 From all the gardens of the globe.



               He standeth at an altar-stone;

                 The blood drips from the slain babe's throat;

               His chant rolls in a magick moan;

                 His head bows to the crownŠd goat.



               His wand makes curves and spires in air;

                 The smoke of incense curls and quivers;

               His eyes fix in a glass-cold stare:

                 The land of Egypt rocks and shivers!



               "Lo! by thy Gods, O God, I vow

                 To burn the authentic bones and blood

               Of curst Osiris even now

                 To the dark Nile's upsurging flood!



               I cast thee down, oh crowned and throned!

                 To black Amennti's void profane.

               Until mine anger be atoned

                 Thou shalt not ever rise again."    {73}



               With firm red lips and square black beard,

               Osiris in his strength appeared.



               He made the sign that saveth men

               On Palamede the Saracen.



               'Hath hushed his conjuration grim:

               The curse comes back to sleep with him.



               'Hath fallen himself to that profane

               Whence none might ever rise again.



               Dread torture racks him; all his bones

               Get voice to utter forth his groans.



               The very poison of his blood

               Joins in that cry's soul-shaking flood.



               For many a chiliad counted well

               His soul stayed in its proper Hell.



               Then, when Sir Palamedes came

                 Back to himself, the shrine was dark.

               Cold was the incense, dead the flame;

                 The slain babe lay there black and stark.



               What of the Beast?  What of the quest?

                 More blind the quest, the Beast more dim.

               Even now its laughter is suppressed,

                 While his own demons mock at him!  {74}



               O thou most desperate dupe that Hell's

                 Malice can make of mortal men!

               Meddle no more with magick spells,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!  {75}















                                            XXIX



               HA! but the good knight, striding forth

                 From Set's abominable shrine,

               Pursues the quest with bitter wrath,

                 So that his words flow out like wine.



               And lo! the soul that heareth them

                 Is straightway healed of suffering.

               His fame runs through the land of Khem:

                 They flock, the peasant and the king.



               There he works many a miracle:

                 The blind see, and the cripples walk;

               Lepers grow clean; sick folk grow well;

                 The deaf men hear, the dumb men talk.



               He casts out devils with a word;

                 Circleth his wand, and dead men rise.

               No such a wonder hath been heard

                 Since Christ our God's sweet sacrifice.



               "Now, by the glad blood of our Lord!"

                 Quoth Palamede, "my heart is light.

               I am the chosen harpsichord

                 Whereon God playeth; the perfect knight,  {76}



               The saint of Mary" --- there he stayed,

                 For out of Memnon's singing stone

               So fierce a questing barked and brayed,

                 It turned his laughter to a groan.



               His vow forgot, his task undone,

                 His soul whipped in God's bitter school!

               (He moaned a mighty malison!)

                 The perfect knight?  The perfect fool!



               "Now, by God's wounds!" quoth he, "my strength

                 Is burnt out to a pest of pains.

               Let me fling off my curse at length

                 In old Chaldea's starry plains!



               Thou blessŠd Jesus, foully nailed

                 Unto the cruel Calvary tree,

               Look on my soul's poor fort assailed

                 By all the hosts of devilry!



               Is there no medicine but death

                 That shall avail me in my place,

               That I may know the Beauteous Breath

                 And taste the Goodly Gift of Grace?



               Keep Thou yet firm this trembling leaf

                 My soul, dear God Who died for men;

               Yea! for that sinner-soul the chief,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!"  {77}















                                             XXX



               STARRED is the blackness of the sky;

                 Wide is the sweep of the cold plain

               Where good Sir Palamede doth lie,

                 Keen on the Beast-slot once again.



               All day he rode; all night he lay

                 With eyes wide open to the stars,

               Seeking in many a secret way

                 The key to unlock his prison bars.



               Beneath him, hark! the marvel sounds!

                 The Beast that questeth horribly.

               As if a thirty couple hounds

                 Are in his belly questeth he.



               Beneath him?  Heareth he aright?

                 He leaps to'sfeet --- a wonder shews:

               Steep dips a stairway from the light

                 To what obscurity God knows.



               Still never a tremor shakes his soul

                 (God praise thee, knight of adamant!);

               He plungers to that gruesome goal

                 Firm as an old bull-elephant!  {78}



               The broad stair winds; he follows it;

                 Dark is the way; the air is blind;

               Black, black the blackness of the pit,

                 The light long blotted out behind!



               His sword sweeps out; his keen glance peers

                 For some shape glimmering through the gloom:

               Naught, naught in all that void appears;

                 More still, more silent than the tomb!



               Ye now the good knight is aware

                 Of some black force, of some dread throne,

               Waiting beneath that awful stair,

                 Beneath that pit of slippery stone.



               Yea! though he sees not anything,

                 Nor hears, his subtle sense is 'ware

               That, lackeyed by the devil-king,

                 The Beast --- the Questing Beast --- is there!



               So though his heart beats close with fear,

                 Though horror grips his throat, he goes,

               Goes on to meet it, spear to spear,

                 As good knight should, to face his foes.



               Nay! but the end is come.  Black earth

                 Belches that peerless Paladin

               Up from her gulphs --- untimely birth!

                 --- Her horror could not hold him in!  {79}



               White as a corpse, the hero hails

                 The dawn, that night of fear still shaking

               His body.  All death's doubt assails

                 Him.  Was it sleep or was it waking?



               "By God, I care not, I!" (quod he).

                 "Or wake or sleep, or live or dead,

               I will pursue this mystery.

                 So help me Grace of Godlihead!"



               Ay! with thy wasted limbs pursue

                 That subtle Beast home to his den!

               Who know but thou mayst win athrough,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen?  {80}















                                            XXXI



               FROM God's sweet air Sir Palamede

                 Hath come unto a demon bog,

               A city where but rats may breed



               In sewer-stench and fetid fog.

                 Within its heart pale phantoms crawl.

               Breathless with foolish haste they jog



               And jostle, all for naught!  They scrawl

                 Vain things all night that they disown

               Ere day.  They call and bawl and squall



               Hoarse cries; they moan, they groan.  A stone

                 Hath better sense!  And these among

               A cabbage-headed god they own,



               With wandering eye and jabbering tongue.

                 He, rotting in that grimy sewer

               And charnel-house of death and dung,



               Shrieks: "How the air is sweet and pure!

                 Give me the entrails of a frog

               And I will teach thee!  Lo! the lure  {81}



               Of light!  How lucent is the fog!

                 How noble is my cabbage-head!

               How sweetly fragrant is the bog!



               "God's wounds!"  (Sir Palamedes said),

                 "What have I done to earn this portion?

               Must I, the clean knight born and bred,



               Sup with this filthy toad-abortion?"

                 Nathless he stayed with him awhile,

               Lest by disdain his mention torsion



               Slip back, or miss the serene smile

                 Should crown his quest; for (as onesaith)

               The unknown may lurk within the vile.



               So he who sought the Beauteous Breath,

                 Desired the Goodly Gift of Grace,

               Went equal into life and death.



               But oh! the foulness of his face!

                 Not here was anything of worth;

               He turned his back upon the place,



               Sought the blue sky and the green earth,

                 Ay! and the lustral sea to cleanse

               That filth that stank about his girth,  {82}



               The sores and scabs, the warts and wens,

                 The nameless vermin he had gathered

               In those insufferable dens,



               The foul diseases he had fathered.

                 So now the quest slips from his brain:

               "First (Christ!) let me be clean again!"  {83}















                                            XXXII



               "HA!" cries the knight, "may patient toil

               Of brain dissolve this cruel coil!

                 In Afric they that chase the ostrich

               Clothe them with feathers, subtly foil



               Its vigilance, come close, then dart

               Its death upon it.  Brave my heart!

                 Do thus!"  And so the knight disguises

               Himself, on hands and knees doth start



               His hunt, goes questing up and down.

               So in the fields the peasant clown

                 Flies, shrieking, from the dreadful figure.

               But when he came to any town



               They caged him for a lunatic.

               Quod he: "Would God I had the trick!

                 The beast escaped from my devices;

               I will the same.  The bars are thick,



               But I am strong."  He wrenched in vain;

               Then --- what is this?  What wild, sharp strain

                 Smites on the air?  The prison smashes.

               Hark! 'tis the Questing Beast again!   {84}



               Then as he rushes forth the note

               Roars from that Beast's malignant throat

                 With laughter, laughter, laughter, laughter!

               The wits of Palamedes float



               In ecstasy of shame and rage.

               "O Thou!" exclaims the baffled sage;

                 "How should I match Thee?  Yet, I will so,

               Though Doomisday devour the Age.



               Weeping, and beating on his breast,

               Gnashing his teeth, he still confessed

                 The might of the dread oath that bound him:

               He would not yet give up the quest.



               "Nay! while I am," quoth he, "though Hell

               Engulph me, though God mock me well,

                 I follow as I sware; I follow,

               Though it be unattainable.



               Nay, more!  Because I may not win,

               Is't worth man's work to enter in!

                 The Infinite with mighty passion

               Hath caught my spirit in a gin.



               Come! since I may not imitate

               The Beast, at least I work and wait.

                 We shall discover soon or late

               Which is the master --- I or Fate!"  {85}















                                           XXXIII



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath passed unto the tideless sea,

                   That the keen whisper of the wind

               May bring him that which never men

                 Knew --- on the quest, the quest, rides he!

                   So long to seek, so far to find!



               So weary was the knight, his limbs

                 Were slack as new-slain dove's; his knees

                   No longer gripped the charger rude.

               Listless, he aches; his purpose swims

                 Exhausted in the oily seas

                   Of laxity and lassitude.



               The soul subsides; its serious motion

                 Still throbs; by habit, not by will.

                   And all his lust to win the quest

               Is but a passive-mild devotion.

                 (Ay! soon the blood shall run right chill

                   --- And is not death the Lord of Rest?)



               There as he basks upon the cliff

                 He yearns toward the Beast; his eyes

                   Are moist with love; his lips are fain  {86}

               To breathe fond prayers; and (marry!) if

                 Man's soul were measured by his sighs

                   He need not linger to attain.



               Nay! while the Beast squats there, above

                 Him, smiling on him; as he vows

                   Wonderful deeds and fruitless flowers,

               He grows so maudlin in his love

                 That even the knaves of his own house

                   Mock at him in their merry hours.



               "God's death!" raged Palamede, not wroth

                 But irritated, "laugh ye so?

                   Am I a jape for scullions?"

               His curse came in a flaky froth.

                 He seized a club, with blow on blow

                   Breaking the knave's unreverent sconce!



               "Thou mock the Questing Beast I chase,

                 The Questing Beast I love?  'Od's wounds!"

                   Then sudden from the slave there brake

               A cachinnation scant of grace,

                 As if a thirty couple hounds

                   Were in his belly!  Knight, awake!



               Ah! well he woke!  His love an scorn

                 Grapple in death-throe at his throat.

                   "Lead me away" (quoth he), "my men!

               Woe, woe is me was ever born

                 So blind a bat, so gross a goat,

                   As Palamede the Saracen!"  {87}















                                            XXXIV



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath hid him in an hermit's cell

               Upon an island in the fen



               Of that lone land where Druids dwell.

                 There came an eagle from the height

               And bade him mount.  From dale to dell



               They sank and soared.  Last to the light

                 Of the great sun himself they flew,

               Piercing the borders of the night,



               Passing the irremeable blue.

                 Far into space beyond the stars

               At last they came.  And there he knew



               All the blind reasonable bars

                 Broken, and all the emotions stilled,

               And all the stains and all the scars



               Left him; sop like a child he thrilled

                 With utmost knowledge; all his soul,

               With perfect sense and sight fulfilled,  {88}



               Touched the extreme, the giant goal!

                 Yea! all things in that hour transcended,

               All power in his sublime control,



               All felt, all thought, all comprehended ---

                 "How is it, then, the quest" (he saith)

               "Is not --- at last! --- achieved and ended?



               Why taste I not the Bounteous Breath,

                 Receive the Goodly Gift of Grace?

               Now, kind king-eagle (by God's death!),



               Restore me to mine ancient place!

                 I am advantaged nothing then!"

               Then swooped he from the Byss of Space,



               And set the knight amid the fen.

                 "God!" quoth Sir Palamede, "that I

               Who have won nine should fail at ten!



                 I set my all upon the die:

                 There is no further trick to try.

               Call thrice accursŠd above men

               Sir Palamede the Saracen!"  {89}















                                            XXXV



               "YEA!" quoth the knight, "I rede the spell.

               This Beast is the Unknowable.

               I seek in Heaven, I seek in Hell;



               Ever he mocks me.  Yet, methinks,

               I have the riddle of the Sphinx.

               For were I keener than the lynx



               I should not see within my mind

               One thought that is not in its kind

               In sooth That Beast that lurks behind:



               And in my quest his questing seems

               The authentic echo of my dreams,

               The proper thesis of my themes!



               I know him?  Still he answers: No!

               I know him not?  Maybe --- and lo!

               He is the one sole thing I know!



               Nay! who knows not is different

               From him that knows.  Then be content;

               Thou canst not alter the event!  {90}



               Ah! what conclusion subtly draws

               From out this chaos of mad laws?

               An I, the effect, as I, the cause?



               Nay, the brain reels beneath its swell

               Of pompous thoughts.  Enough to tell

               That He is known Unknowable!"



               Thus did that knightly Saracen

               In Cantabrig's miasmal fen

               Lecture to many learned men.



               So clamorous was their applause ---

               "His mind" (said they) "is free of flaws:

               The Veil of God is thin as gauze!" ---



               That almost they had dulled or drowned

               The laughter (in its belly bound)

               Of that dread Beast he had not found.



               Nathless --- although he would away ---

               They forced the lack-luck knight to stay

               And lecture many a weary day.



               Verily, almost he had caught

               The infection of their costive thought,

               And brought his loyal quest to naught.



               It was by night that Palamede

               Ran from that mildewed, mouldy breed,

               Moth-eathen dullards run to seed!  {91}



               How weak Sir Palamedes grows!

               We hear no more of bouts and blows!

               His weapons are his ten good toes!



               He that was Arthur's peer, good knight

               Proven in many a foughten fight,

               Flees like a felon in the night!



               Ay! this thy quest is past the ken

               Of thee and of all mortal men,

               Sir Palamede the Saracen!  {92}















                                            XXXVI



               OFT, as Sir Palamedes went

                 Upon the quest, he was aware

               Of some vast shadow subtly bent

                 With his own shadow in the air.



               It had no shape, no voice had it

                 Wherewith to daunt the eye or ear;

               Yet all the horror of the pit

                 Clad it with all the arms of fear.



               Moreover, though he sought to scan

                 Some feature, though he listened long,

               No shape of God or fiend or man,

                 No whisper, groan, shriek, scream, or song



               Gave him to know it.  Now it chanced

                 One day Sir Palamedes rode

               Through a great wood whose leafage danced

                 In the thin sunlight as it flowed



               From heaven.  He halted in a glade,

                 Bade his horse crop the tender grass;

               Put off his armour, softly laid

                 Himself to sleep till noon should pass.  {93}



               He woke. Before him stands and grins

                 A motley hunchback.  "Knave!" quoth he,

               "Hast seen the Beast?  The quest that wins

                 The loftiest prize of chivalry?"



               Sir Knight," he answers, "hast thou seen

                 Aught of that Beast?  How knowest thou, then,

               That it is ever or hath been,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen?"



               Sir Palamede was well awake.

                 "Nay!  I deliberate deep and long,

               Yet find no answer fit to make

                 To thee.  The weak beats down the strong;



               The fool's cap shames the helm.  But thou!

                 I know thee for the shade that haunts

               My way, sets shame upon my brow,

                 My purpose dims, my courage daunts.



               Then, since the thinker must be dumb,

                 At least the knight may knightly act:

               The wisest monk in Christendom

                 May have his skull broke by a fact."



               With that, as a snake strikes, his sword

                 Leapt burning to the burning blue;

               And fell, one swift, assured award,

                 Stabbing that hunchback through and through.  {94}



               Straight he dissolved, a voiceless shade.

                 "Or scotched or slain," the knight said then,

               "What odds?  Keep bright and sharp thy blade,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!"  {95}















                                           XXXVII



               SIR PALAMEDE is sick to death!

                 The staring eyen, the haggard face!

               God grant to him the Beauteous breath!

                 god send the Goodly Gift of Grace!



               There is a white cave by the sea

                 Wherein the knight is hid away.

               Just ere the night falls, spieth he

                 The sun's last shaft flicker astray.



               All day is dark.  There, there he mourns

                 His wasted years, his purpose faint.

               A million whips, a million scorns

                 Make the knight flinch, and stain the saint.



               For now! what hath he left?  He feeds

                 On limpets and wild roots.  What odds?

               There is no need a mortal needs

                 Who hath loosed man's hope to grasp at God's!



               How his head swims!  At night what stirs

                 Above the faint wash of the tide,

               And rare sea-birds whose winging whirrs

                 About the cliffs?  Now good betide!  {96}



               God save thee, woeful Palamede!

                 The questing of the Beast is loud

               Within thy ear.  By Goddes reed,

                 thou has won the tilt from all the crowd!



               Within thy proper bowels it sounds

                 Mighty and musical at need,

               As if a thirty couple hounds

                 Quested within thee, Palamede!



               Now, then, he grasps the desperate truth

                 He hath toiled these many years to see,

               Hath wasted strength, hath wasted youth --0-

                 He was the Beast; the Beast was he!



               He rises from the cave of death,

                 Runs to the sea with shining face

               To know at last the Bounteous Breath,

                 To taste the Goodly Gift of Grace.



               Ah!  Palamede, thou has mistook!

                 Thou art the butt of all confusion!

               Not to be written in my book

                 Is this most drastic disillusion!



               so weak and ill was he, I doubt

                 if he might hear the royal feast

               Of laughter that came rolling out

                 Afar from that elusive Beast.  {97}



               Yet, those white lips were snapped, like steel

                 Upon the ankles of a slave!

               That body broken on the wheel

                 Of time suppressed the groan it gave!



               "Not there, not here, my quest!" he cried.

                 "Not thus!  Not now!  do how and when

               Matter?  I am, and I abide,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!"  {98}















                                           XXXVIII



               SIR PALAMEDE of great renown

                 rode through the land upon the quest,

               His sword loose and his vizor down,

                 His buckler braced, his lance in rest.



               Now, then, God save thee, Palamede!

                 Who courseth yonder on the field?

               Those silver arms, that sable steed,

                 The sun and rose upon his shield?



               The strange knight spurs to him.  disdain

                 Curls that proud lip as he uplifts

               His vizor.  "Come, an end!  In vain,

                 Sir Fox, thy thousand turns and shifts!"



               Sir Palamede was white with fear.

                 Lord Christ! those features were his own;

               His own that voice so icy clear

                 That cuts him, cuts him to the bone.



               "False knight! false knight!" the stranger cried.

                 "Thou bastard dog, Sir Palamede?

               I am the good knight fain to ride

                 Upon the Questing Beast at need.  {99}



               Thief of my arms, my crest, my quest,

                 My name, now meetest thou thy shame.

               See, with this whip I lash thee back,

                 Back to the kennel whence there came



               So false a hound."  "Good knight, in sooth,"

                 Answered Sir Palamede, "not I

               Presume to asset the idlest truth;

                 And here, by this good ear and eye,



               I grant thou art Sir Palamede.

                 But --- try the first and final test

               If thou or I be he.  Take heed!"

                 He backed his horse, covered his breast,



               Drove his spurs home, and rode upon

                 That knight.  His lance-head fairly struck

               The barred strength of his morion,

                 And rolled the stranger in the muck.



               "Now, by God's death!" quoth Palamede,

                 His sword at work, "I will not leave

               So much of thee as God might feed

                 His sparrows with.  As I believe



               The sweet Christ's mercy shall avail,

                 so will I not have aught for thee;

               Since every bone of thee may rail

                 Against me, crying treachery.  {100}



               Thou hast lied.  I am the chosen knight

                 To slay the Questing beast for men;

               I am the loyal son of light,

                 Sir Palamede the Saracen!



               Thou wast the subtlest fiend that yet

                 hath crossed my path.  to say thee nay

               I dare not, but my sword is wet

                 With thy knave's blood, and with thy clay



               fouled!  Dost thou think to resurrect?

                 O sweet Lord Christ that savest men!

               From all such fiends do thou protect

                 Me, Palamede the Saracen!"  {101}















                                            XXXIX



               GREEN and Grecian is the valley,

                 Shepherd lads and shepherd lasses

                   Dancing in a ring

               Merrily and musically.

                 How their happiness surpasses

                   The mere thrill of spring!



               "Come" (they cry), "Sir Knight, put by

                 All that weight of shining armour!

               Here's a posy, here's a garland, there's a chain of daisies!

                 Here's a charmer!  There's a charmer!

               Praise the God that crazes men, the God that raises

                 All our lives toe ecstasy!"



               Sir Palamedes was too wise

                 To mock their gentle wooing;

               He smiles into their sparkling eyes

                 While they his armour are undoing.

               "For who" (quoth he) "may say that this

               Is not the mystery I miss?"



               Soon he is gathered in the dance,

                 And smothered in the flowers.  {102}

               A boy's laugh and a maiden's glance

                 Are sweet as paramours!

               Stay! is thee naught some wanton wight

               May do to excite the glamoured knight?



               Yea! the song takes a sea-wild swell;

                 The dance moves in a mystic web;

               Strange lights abound and terrible;

                 The life that flowed is out at ebb.



               The lights are gone; the night is come;

                 The lads and lasses sink, awaiting

               Some climax --- oh, how tense and dumb

                 The expectant hush intoxicating!

               Hush! the heart's beat!  Across the moor

               Some dreadful god rides fast, be sure!



               the listening Palamede bites through

                 his thin white lips --- what hoofs are those?

               Are they the Quest?  How still and blue

                 The sky is!  Hush --- God knows --- God knows!



               Then on a sudden in the midst of them

                 is a swart god, from hoof to girdle a goat,

               Upon his brow the twelve-star diadem

                 And the King's Collar fastened on this throat.



               Thrill upon thrill courseth through Palamede.

                 Life, live, pure life is bubbling in his blood.

               All youth comes back, all strength, all you indeed

                 Flaming within that throbbing spirit-flood!  {103

               Yet was his heart immeasurably sad,

               For that no questing in his ear he had.



               Nay! he saw all.  He saw the Curse

                 That wrapped in ruin the World primaeval.

               He saw the unborn Universe,

                 And all its gods coeval.

               He saw, and was, all things at once

                 In Him that is; he was the stars,

               The moons, the meteors, the suns,

                 All in one net of triune bars;

               Inextricably one, inevitably one,

                 Immeasurable, immutable, immense

               Beyond all the wonder that his soul had won

                 By sense, in spite of sense, and beyond sense.

               "Praise God!" quoth Palamede, "by this

               I attain the uttermost of bliss. ...



               God's wounds!  but that I never sought.

                 The Questing Beast I sware to attain

               And all this miracle is naught.

                 Off on my travels once again!



               I keep my youth regained to foil

               Old Time that took me in his toil.

               I keep my strength regained to chase

                 The beast that mocks me now as then

               Dear Christ!  I pray Thee of Thy grace

               Take pity on the forlorn case

                 Of Palamede the Saracen!"  {104}















                                             XL



               SIR PALAMEDE the Saracen

                 Hath see the All; his mind is set

               To pass beyond that great Amen.



               Far hath he wandered; still to fret

                 His soul against that Soul.  He breaches

               The rhododendron forest-net,



               His body bloody with its leeches.

                 Sternly he travelleth the crest

               Of a great mountain, far that reaches



               Toward the King-snows; the rains molest

                 The knight, white wastes updriven of wind

               In sheets, in torrents, fiend-possessed,



               Up from the steaming plains of Ind.

                 They cut his flesh, they chill his bones:

               Yet he feels naught; his mind is pinned



               To that one point where all the thrones

                 Join to one lion-head of rock,

               Towering above all crests and cones  {105}



               That crouch like jackals.  Stress and shock

                 Move Palamede no more.  Like fate

               He moves with silent speed.   They flock,



               The Gods, to watch him.  Now abate

                 His pulses; he threads through the vale,

               And turns him to the mighty gate,



               The glacier.  Oh, the flowers that scale

                 those sun-kissed heights!  The snows that crown

               The quarts ravines!  The clouds that veil



               The awful slopes!  Dear God! look down

                 And see this petty man move on.

               Relentless as Thine own renown,



               Careless of praise or orison,

                 Simply determined.  Wilt thou launch

               (this knight's presumptuous head upon)



               The devastating avalancehe?

                 He knows too much, and cares too little!

               His wound is more than Death can staunch.



               He can avoid, though by one tittle,

                 Thy surest shaft!  And now the knight,

               Breasting the crags, may laugh and whittle



               Away the demon-club whose might

                 Threatened him.  Now he leaves the spur;

               And eager, with a boy's delight, {106}



               Treads the impending glacier.

                 Now, now he strikes the steep black ice

               That leads to the last neck.  By Her



               That bore the lord, by what device

                 May he pass there?  Yet still he moves,

               Ardent and steady, as if the price



               Of death were less than life approves,

                 As if on eagles' wings he mounted,

               Or as on angels' wings --- or love's!



               So, all the journey he discounted,

                 Holding the goal.  Supreme he stood

               Upon the summit; dreams uncounted,



               Worlds of sublime beatitude!

                 He passed beyond.  The All he hath touched,

               And dropped to vile desuetude.



               What lay beyond?  What star unsmutched

                 By being?  His poor fingers fumble,

               And all the Naught their ardour clutched,



               Like all the rest, begins to crumble.

                 Where is the Beast?  His bliss exceeded

               All that bards sing of or priests mumble;



               No man, no God, hath known what he did.

                 Only this baulked him --- that he lacked

               Exactly the one thing he needed.  {107}



               "Faugh!" cried the knight.  "Thought, word, and act

                 Confirm me.  I have proved the quest

               Impossible.  I break the pact.



               Back to the gilded halls, confessed

                 A recreant!  Achieved or not,

               This task hath earned a foison --- rest.



               In Caerlon and Camelot

                 Let me embrace my fellow-men!

               To buss the wenches, pass the pot,

               Is now the enviable lot

                 Of Palamede the Saracen!"  {108}















                                             XLI



               SIR ARTHUR sits again at feast

                 Within the high and holy hall

               Of Camelot.  From West to East



               The Table Round hath burst the thrall

                 Of Paynimrie.  The goodliest gree

               Sits on the gay knights, one and all;



               Till Arthur: "Of your chivalry,

                 Knights, let us drink the happiness

               Of the one knight we lack" (quoth he);



               "For surely in some sore distress

                 May be Sir Palamede."  Then they

               Rose as one man in glad liesse



               To honour that great health.  "god's way

                 Is not as man's" (quoth Lancelot).

               "Yet, may god send him back this day,



               His quest achieve, to Camelot!"

                 "Amen!" they cried, and raised the bowl;

               When --- the wind rose, a blast as hot {109}



               As the simoom, and forth did roll

                 A sudden thunder.  Still they stood.

               Then came a bugle-blast.  The soul



               Of each knight stirred.  With vigour rude,

                 The blast tore down the tapestry

               That hid the door.  All ashen-hued



               The knights laid hand to sword.  But he

                 (Sir Palamedes) in the gap

               Was found --- God knoweth --- bitterly



               Weeping.  Cried Arthur: "Strange the hap!

                 My knight, my dearest knight, my friend!

               What gift had Fortune in her lap



               Like thee?  Em,brace me!"  "Rather end

                 Your garments, if you love me, sire!"

               (Quod he).  "I am come unto the end.



               All mine intent and my desire,

                 My quest, mine oath --- all, all is done.

               Burn them with me in fatal fire!



               Fir I have failed.  All ways, each one

                 I strove in, mocked me.  If I quailed

               Or shirked, God knows.  I have not won:



               That and no more I know.  I failed."

                 King Arthur fell a-weeping.  Then

               Merlin uprose, his face unveiled;  {110}



               Thrice cried he piteously then

                 Upon our Lord.  Then shook this head

               Sir Palamede the Saracen,



               As knowing nothing might bestead,

                 When lo! there rose a monster moan,

               A hugeous cry, a questing dread,



               As if (God's death!) there coursed alone

                 The Beast, within whose belly sounds

               That marvellous music monotone



               As if a thirty couple hounds

                 Quested within him.  Now, by Christ

               And by His pitiful five wounds! ---



               Even as a lover to his tryst,

                 That Beast came questing in the hall,

               One flame of gold and amethyst,



               Bodily seen then of them all.

                 then came he to Sir Palamede,

               Nestling to him, as sweet and small



               As a young babe clings at its need

                 To the white bosom of its mother,

               As Christ clung to the gibbet-reed!



               Then every knight turned to his brother,

                 Sobbing and signing for great gladness;

               And, as they looked on one another,  {111}



               Surely there stole a subtle madness

                 Into their veins, more strong than death:

               For all the roots of sin and sadness



               Were plucked.  As a flower perisheth,

                 So all sin died.  And in that place

               All they did know the Beauteous Breath



               And taste the Goodly Gift of Grace.

                 Then fell the night.  Above the baying

               Of the great Beast, that was the bass



               To all the harps of Heaven a-playing,

                 There came a solemn voice (not one

               But was upon his knees in praying



               And glorifying God).  The Son

                 Of God Himself --- men thought --- spoke then.

               "Arise! brave soldier, thou hast won



               The quest not given to mortal men.

                 Arise!  Sir Palamede Adept,

               Christian, and no more Saracen!



               On wake or sleeping, wise, inept,

                 Still thou didst seek.  Those foolish ways

               On which thy folly stumbled, leapt,



               All led to the one goal.  Now praise

                 Thy Lord hat He hat brought thee through

               To win the quest!"  The good knight lays  {112}



               His hand upon the Beast.  Then blew

                 Each angel on his trumpet, then

               All Heaven resounded that it knew



               Sir Palamede the Saracen

                 Was master!  Through the domes of death,

               Through all the mighty realms of men



               And spirits breathed the Beauteous Breath:

                 They taste the Goodly Gift of Grace.

               --- Now 'tis the chronicler that saith:



               Our Saviour grant in little space

                 That also I, even I, be blest

               Thus, though so evil is my case ---



               Let them that read my rime attest

                 The same sweet unction in my pen ---

               That writes in pure blood of my breast;



               For that I figure unto men

                 The story of my proper quest

                 As thine, first Eastern in the West,

               Sir Palamede the Saracen!  {113}



Liber Resh vel Helios
sub figura CC

Publication in class D

0. These are the adorations to be performed by aspirants to the A.·. A.·.
Let him greet the Sun at dawn, facing East, giving the sign of his grade. And let him say in a loud voice:
Hail unto Thee who art Ra in Thy rising, even unto Thee who art Ra in Thy strength, who travellest over the Heavens in Thy bark at the Uprising of the Sun.
Tahuti standeth in His splendour at the prow, and Ra-Hoor abideth at the helm.
Hail unto Thee from the Abodes of Night!
Also at Noon, let him greet the Sun, facing South, giving the sign of his grade. And let him say in a loud voice:
Hail unto Thee who art Ahathoor in Thy triumphing, even unto Thee who art Ahathoor in Thy beauty, who travellest over the heavens in thy bark at the Mid-course of the Sun.
Tahuti standeth in His splendour at the prow, and Ra-Hoor abideth at the helm.
Hail unto Thee from the Abodes of Morning!
Also, at Sunset, let him greet the Sun, facing West, giving the sign of his grade. And let him say in a loud voice:
Hail unto Thee who art Tum in Thy setting, even unto Thee who art Tum in Thy joy, who travellest over the Heavens in Thy bark at the Down-going of the Sun.
Tahuti standeth in His splendour at the prow, and Ra-Hoor abideth at the helm.
Hail unto Thee from the Abodes of Day!
Lastly, at Midnight, let him greet the Sun, facing North, giving the sign of his grade, and let him say in a loud voice:
Hail unto thee who art Khephra in Thy hiding, even unto Thee who art Khephra in Thy silence, who travellest over the heavens in Thy bark at the Midnight Hour of the Sun.
Tahuti standeth in His splendour at the prow, and Ra-Hoor abideth at the helm.
Hail unto Thee from the Abodes of Evening.
And after each of these invocations thou shalt give the sign of silence, and afterward thou shalt perform the adoration that is taught thee by thy Superior. And then do thou compose Thyself to holy meditation.
Also it is better if in these adorations thou assume the God-form of Whom thou adorest, as if thou didst unite with Him in the adoration of That which is beyond Him.
Thus shalt thou ever be mindful of the Great Work which thou hast undertaken to perform, and thus shalt thou be strengthened to pursue it unto the attainment of the Stone of the Wise, the Summum Bonum, True Wisdom and Perfect Happiness.

Liber RV vel Spiritus
sub figura CCVI

Publication in Class B

WEH NOTE: The Liber omits sections 0 and 1 in earlier publication in EQUINOX I, 7 as well as here. There are signs that this version has been edited, notably changes were made in punctuation and capitalization. The editing appears to be defective, with some material omitted inadvertently. There is one original footnote, and the others are mine. There was also a photo page in the EQUINOX version.

Let the Zelator observe the current of his breath. 
Let him investigate the following statements, and prepare a careful record of research.
Certain actions induce the flow of the breath through the right nostril (Pingala); and, conversely, the flow of the breath through Pingala induces certain actions.
Certain other actions induce the flow of the breath through the left nostril (Ida), and conversely.
Yet a third class of actions induce the flow of the breath through both nostrils at once (Sushumna), and conversely.
The degree of mental and physical activity is interdependent with the distance from the nostrils at which the breath can be felt by the back of the hand. 
First practice. --- Let him concentrate his mind upon the act of breathing, saying mentally, "The breath flows in", "the breath flows out", and record the results. [This practice may resolve itself into Mahasatipatthana (vide Liber XXV) or induce Samadhi. Whichever occurs should be followed up as the right Ingenium of the Zelator, or the advice of his Practicus, may determine.] 
Second practice. Pranayama. --- This is outlined in Liber E. Further, let the Zelator accomplished in those practices endeavour to master a cycle of 10, 20, 40 or even 16, 32, 64. But let this be done gradually and with due caution. And when he is steady and easy both in Asana and Pranayama, let him still further increase the period.
Thus let him investigate these statements which follow: ---
If Pranayama be properly performed, the body will first of all become covered with sweat. This sweat is different in character from that customarily induced by exertion. If the Practitioner rub this sweat thoroughly into his body, he will greatly strengthen it.
The tendency to perspiration will stoÿ as the practice is continued, and the body become automatically rigid.
Describe this rigidity with minute accuracy.
The state of automatic rigidity will develop into a state characterised by violent spasmodic movements of which the Practitioner is unconscious, but of whose result he is aware. This result is that the body hops gently from place to place. After the first two or three occurrences of this experience, Asana is not lost. The body appears (on another theory) to have lost its weight almost completely and to be moved by an unknown force.
As a development of this stage, the body rises into the air, and remains there for an appreciably long period, from a second to an hour or more.
Let him further investigate any mental results which may occur.

Third Practice. --- In order both to economise his time and to develoÿ his powers, let the Zelator practise the deep full breathing which his preliminary exercises will have taught him during his walks. Let him repeat a sacred sentence (mantra) or let him count, in such a way that his footfall beats accurately with the rhythm thereof, as is done in dancing. Then let him practise Pranayama, at first without the Kumbhakam,
WEH NOTE: Equinox spells this "Kumbakham" in this spot only.

and paying no attention to the nostrils otherwise than to keep them clear. Let him begin by an indrawing of the breath for 4 paces, and a breathing out for 4 paces. Let him increase this gradually to 6.6, 8.8, 12.12, 16.16 and 24.24, or more if he be able. Next let him practise in the proper prportion 4.8, 6.12, 8.16, 12.24 and so on. Then if he choose, let him recommence the series, adding a gradually increasing period of Kumbhakam.

WEH NOTE: Equinox spells this "Kumbhakham".

Fourth practice. --- Following on this third practice, let him quicken his mantra and his pace until the walk develops into a dance. This may also be practised with the ordinary waltz step, using a mantra in three-time, such as GR:epsilon-pi-epsilon-lambda-theta-omicron-nu, GR:epsilon-pi-epsilon-lambda-theta-omicron-nu, GR:Alpha-rho-tau-epsilon-mu-iota-sigma; or Iao, Iao Sabao; in such cases the practice may be combined with devotion to a particular deity: see Liber CLXXV. For the dance as such it is better to use a mantra of a non-committal character, such as GR:Tau-omicron GR:epsilon-iota-nu-alpha-iota, GR:Tau-omicron GR:Kappa-alpha-lambda-omicron-nu, GR:Tau-omicron 'GR:Alpha-gamma-alpha-delta-omicron-nu,
WEH NOTE: The Equinox has this last word as:"' GR:gamma-alpha-theta-alpha-nu"

or the like.

Fifth practice. --- Let him practice mental concentration during the dance, and investigate the following experiments:
The dance becomes independent of the will.
Similar phenomena to those described in 5 (a), (b), (c), (d), occur. 
A note concerning the depth and fullness of the breathing. In all prper expiration the last possible portion of air should be expelled. In this the muscles of the throat, chest, ribs, and abdomen must be fully employed, and aided by the pressing of the upper arms into the flanks, and of the head into the thorax.
In all proper inspiration the last possible portion of air must be drawn into the lungs.
In all proper holding of the breath, the body must remain absolutely still.
Ten minutes of such practice is ample to induce profuse sweating in any place of a temperature of 17 Degree C or over.
The progress of the Zelator in acquiring a depth and fullness of breath should be tested by the respirometer.
The exercises should be carefully graduated to avoid overstrain and possible damage to the lungs.
This depth and fullness of breath should be kept as much as possible, even in the rapid exercises, with the exception of the sixth practice following. 
Sixth Practice. --- Let the Zelator breathe as shallowly and rapidly as possible. He should assume the attitude of his moment of greatest expiration, and breathe only with the muscles of his throat. He may also practice lengthening the period between each shallow breathing.
This may be combined, when acquired, with concentration on the Visuddhi cakkra, i.e. let him fix his mind unwaveringly upon a point in the spine opposite the larynx.)
WEH NOTE: In the Equinox this parenthetic paragraph is identified as an editorial comment.

WEH NOTE: from this point, the text in the Equinox diverges from this text. There is an additional step: "11. "Seventh practice." Let the Zelator breathe as deeply and rapidly as possible." The step numbered here as "Seventh" is labeled "Eighth" in the Equinox.

Seventh practice. --- Let the Zelator practise restraint of breathing in the following manner. At any stage of breathing let him suddenly hold the breath, enduring the need to breathe until it passes, returns, and passes again, and so on until consciousness is lost, either rising to Samadhi or similar supernormal condition, or falling into oblivion. 
Ninth practice. -- Let him practice the usual forms of Pranayama, but let Kumbhakam be used after instead of before expiration. Let him gradually increase the period of this Kumbhakam as in the case of the other. 
A note concerning the conditions of these experiments.
The conditions favourable are dry, bracing air, a warm climate, absence of wind, absence of noise, insects and all other disturbing influences,
Note that in the early stages of concentration of the mind, such annoyances become negligible.

a retired situation, simple food eaten in great moderation at the conclusion of the practices of morning and afternoon, and on no account before practising. Bodily health is almost essential, and should be most carefully guarded (See Liber CLXXXV, "Task of a Neophyte"). A diligent and tractable disciple, or the Practicus of the Zelator, should aid him in his work. Such a disciple should be noiseless, patient, vigilant, prompt, cheerful, of gentle manner and reverent to his master, intelligent to anticipate his wants, cleanly and gracious, not given to speech, devoted and unselfish. With all this he should be fierce and terrible to strangers and all hostile influences, determined and vigorous, increasingly vigilant, the guardian of the threshold.
It is not desirable that the Zelator should employ any other creature than a man, save in cases of necessity. Yet for some of these purposes a dog will serve, for others a woman. There are also others appointed to serve, but these are not for the Zelator.

Tenth Practice. --- Let the Zelator experiment if he will with inhalations of oxygen, nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, and other gases mixed in small proportion with his air during his practices. These experiments are to be conducted with caution in the presence of a medical man of experience, and they are only useful as facilitating a simulacrum of the results of the proper practices and thereby enheartening the Zelator. 
Eleventh practice. --- Let the Zelator at an time during the practices, especially during the periods of Kumbhakam, throw his will utterly towards his Holy Guardian Angel, directing his eyes inward and upward, and turning back his tongue as if to swallow it. (This latter operation is facilitated by severing the fraenum linguae, which, if done, should be done by a competent surgeon. We do not advise this or any similar method of cheating difficulties. This is, however, harmless.)
WEH NOTE: Harmless, that is, if you don't mind the danger of choking to death in your sleep!

In this manner the practice is to be raised from the physical to the spiritual-plane, even as the words Ruh, Ruach, Pneuma, Spiritus, Geist, Ghost, and indeed words of almost all languages, have been raised from their physical meanings of wind,

WEH NOTE: The Equinox adds "air," to this list.

breath, or movement, to the spiritual plane. (RV is the old root meaning Yoni and hence Wheel (Fr. roue, Lat. rota, wheel) and the corresponding Semitic root means "to go". Similarly spirit is connected with "spiral". -- Ed.)

Let the Zelator attach no credit to any statements that may have been made throughout the course of this instruction, and reflect that even the counsel which we have given as suitable to the average case may be entirely unsuitable to his own.

A.'. A.'.
Publication in Class A.
Imprimatur:
N. Fra A.'. A.'.

{Illustration on facing page presents a considerable problem in representation. It is composed of 44 sigils in two parallel tables with a cross reference column between them. These sigils correspond to the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In this attempt to describe, the layout and captions will be presented first, and this will be followed by somewhat inadequate descriptions and partial representations of the individual sigils. Layout and captions:

  LIBER XXII DOMARUM MERCURII       LIBER XXII CARCERORUM QLIPHOTH

           CUM SUIS GENIIS               CUM SUIS GENNIIS

            .---.---.---.                 .---.---.---.

            :G  :B  :A  :     Compare     :A  :B  :G  :

            :---+---+---:    A  with Tz   :---+---+---:

            :H  :V  :D  :    B   "   G    :D  :H  :V  :

            :---+---+---:    G   "   B    :---+---+---:

            :T  :Ch :Z  :    D   "   A'a  :Z  :Ch :T  :

            :---+---+---:    H   "   Ch   :---+---+---:

            :L  :K  :Y  :    V   "   K    :Y  :K  :L  :

            :---+---+---:    Z   "   D    :---+---+---:

            :S  :N  :M  :    Ch  "   H    :M  :N  :S  :

            :---+---+---:    T   "   Sh   :---+---+---:

            :Tz :P  :A'a:    Y   "   M    :A'a:P  :Tz :

            :---+---+---:    K   "   V    :---+---+---:

            :Sh :R  :Q  :    L   "   S    :Q  :R  :Sh :

            :---.---.---:    M   "   S    :---.---.---:

            :Th         :    N   "   Sh   :Th         :

            .-----------.    S   "   Z    .-----------.

                             A'a "   P

                             P   "   Q

                             Tz  "   A

                             Q   "   P

                             R   "   Z

                             Sh  "   T

                             Th  "   B
In the above, the Hebrew letters are in the upper left corner of each box, except those of the right column of ...MERCURII... which are in the upper right corner of each box.
Next, here is a description of the content of each box. This is necessarily incomplete in that some of the sigils are too obscure to admit a description.

The boxes of ...MERCURII..., mostly reflecting Tarot correspondences to the Hebrew letters with some astrological and Thelemic used as well:

HB:Aleph : This is a widdershins swastika (nazi shaped) of thin lines with all line elements parallel to the sides of the box. There is a small circle about the central intersection. There are four dots in symmetric array, one in the center of each space defined by an arm of the swastika. Greek letters in capitals appear at the ends of the arms of the swastika, oriented toward the outside. Counterclockwise from lower right: Tau, Alpha, Rho, Omega. (The suggestion is that Aleph is swastika shaped and spins out TARO).

HB:Bet : This is a composition of three separate forms. The central one is a vertical wand with a three pointed crown at top. To the right is a simple vesica. To the left is a Shiva-lingam consisting of a round top vertical shaft on a flat base. (Tools of the Magus).

HB:Gemel : This sigil cannot be fully described. It is composed of two shield forms in upper right and left with lines depending. The two forms are separate. The shield in upper left is hatched with nearly horizontal lines, descending slightly toward right. This shield has a slightly concave top with extension to the upper left and is completed by two convex sides which join in a downward point below. The line from the left shield issues from the upper right side as a short upward diagonal, curves down in a arch to the left, recurves down to the right with a curve issuing convexly upward toward the lower right base of the shield while the principle line continues as a lesser curve toward to bottom of the box --- giving a "y" shape in the lower part of this line. The shield in upper right is hatched with nearly vertical lines, deviating slightly downward to left. It is defined by three curved sides, a concave at top slightly downward to the right, an elbow curve forming the left and bottom edges at slight angles in parallel and at right angles to the hatching and a curved line to form the right side nearly parallel to the left but extending below the shield. The line associated issues from the left side symmetrically to the line of the other shield, but ends below in horizontal elipsoidal spindle, point to left, below the shield instead of a fork as did the other. (Possibly male and female or female pregnant and barren).

HB:Dalet : This sigil is composed of five elements. There are two off vertical lines curving inward from the upper quarters of the box to frame the sides. In the upper center to center is a figure rather like a radish: The bulb has a small line extending below and has inner semicircles touching the right and left parts of the circular bulb, at the inner top of the bulb is a rectangle pierced by a point that flares up to right and left to form a sort of confine for what would be the foliage on the "radish", this last portion contains an array of ten dots forming an inverted tetractys. The remaining two elements are a "T" to the left below of the "raddish" and an isosceles triangle with point up to the right. (Probably vulvicular symbolism).

HB:Vau : This figure is a circular ring, right eye of Horus in center, thirteen clockwise hooked flames about the outer rim. In a circular pattern concentric and inside the ring are following characters from top clockwise: V, infinity, V, 3, V, 10, V, 8, V, O. (Plays on unity of V.V.V.V.V. name and other Thelemic elements).

HB:Heh : This is a simple upright pentagram formed of solid lines. In the bays formed by the points with each other are the following symbols, clockwise from upper right: Mercury, A, Sulfur, I, Salt. (Out of alphabetic sequence with the preceeding, may be wrong letters. It appears to be an epitome of five with emphasis on alchemical aspects.).

HB:Zain : This sigil is composed of four elements. At top center is a crescent with horns upward crossed by a vertical arrow, point down and fledging at top. Beneath this is a lineal upright pentagram with five lines issuing radially out from the intersections of the points. To the left below is a Neter sign like a golf club with head to the left on a vertical shaft, three dots vertically below the head. The last element is to the right, the same as the one just described but the head is to the bottom below the dots and points to the right. (Simple diagram of Lover's Trump).

HB:Chet : This sigil is a solid black pentagram of narrow points, one point to top and the intersections of the points have issuing wavy rays on outward radials. (Possibly the idea of contained force associated to Cancer and the Chariot in the Royal Arch).

HB:Tet : This sigil is chiefly a large equilateral triangle with point upward, inside it and sharing the same base and axis is a smaller equilateral triangle. Between the upper apexes of the two triangles is a circle with a dot in center (sun symbol). Midway on the excluded space between the sides of the two triangles on left and right are two small shapes that may be flowers. To the left of the larger top apex is a circle dot (sun) and to the right is a Leo symbol. Within the smaller triangle is a pattern of

Roman numerals giving the value 666: D

                                    C L

                                   X V I. (Sun in Leo and 666).
HB:Yod : This sigil is a traditional "Aladin's lamp" occupying the bottom half of the box, handle to left and wick spout to right. A single vertical line emerges from the wick hole and terminates in a cross with serifs on its three end points. (Lamp of the Hermit).

HB:Koph : This is a circle with one vertical diameter and two others dividing the interior space into six equal parts. Greek capital letters appear at top: Sigma; at lower right, Tau; and at lower left, Rho. (Wheel of Fortune with letters for the three figures).

HB:Lamed : This sigil is based upon a scrolled "U" shape. This is slightly more open at the top than normal and has two tight spiral loops outward and down at the line ends. There is a dot below. Immediately above the lower dip and within is a lineal trident (a "Y" with continuation of the vertical. Above this are three horizontal dots. Above the dots is a simple figure of a horizontal line with two verticals down at its ends and a single vertical across its center. This last vertical element terminates above the upper part of the "U" in a feather of Maat with plume to the right. (Scales of Justice).

HB:Mem : This sigil is composed of a hollow, double walled, equilateral triangle with a cross issuing from its apex, the cross being terminated on the three open ends by serifs. The upper arm of this cross touches a horizontal line. This horizontal line proceeds to the right, makes a right angle and drops in a vertical to terminate in another serifed cross at the lower right of the box. (Simply a Hanged Man on a gibbet with the inverted Sulfur symbol for the figure).

HB:Nun : This sigil has a rectangle below with the letters LVX inside. Above this are the Roman numerals CXX. Above this is an inverted "V" of two straight lines having small circles at the ends of the lines and at the junction. (Possibly refers to the R+C mystery of the tomb of Fr. C.R.).

HB:Samekh : This Sigil is composed of two shapes like a rectangle cut in half horizontally and separated vertically. The lower elongate "U" has a vertical rising a short distance from its base, and all three verticals terminate above in three-serif crosses. The portion above is the same inverted except that the vertical continues both above and below the figure, the lower portion ending in an arrow head and the upper in a 3- serif cross. The letters QST appear across the shaft of the arrow. (This is an allusion to Sagittarius and the rainbow paths on the Tree of Life).

HB:Ayin : This is a circle with ocular mark at top, pierced from below by a nail. The nail ends in two round bulbs below. There is a Sigma to the left of the base and an Eta to the right. (Possibly a goat in coitus).

HB:Peh : Below is a large letter Ayin. Immediately above this is a lineal letter "Y". Above this is a small circle with a short line dependent below, essentially the antique Greek letter Qopa. (Looks like a stick figure about to fall into a Hell-mouth).

HB:Tzaddi : The basic figure is a deosil swastika. This is contained by an open box shape formed by four coils at top, bottom and sides. Within the chambers so created are letters and a shape. Clockwise from upper left: The shape is the sword of ten points on the Tree of Life; O; N; B.

HB:Qof : The central motif is an inverted "Y" shape of equal angles. Below this is an upright equilateral triangle. Above is a crescent moon with horns pointing right. To either side and near center are two mirrored patterns. The one on the left looks like a Theban "k" with a Nun to its right, all on a slope toward the lower left. The pattern on the right is a mirror reversal. (Possibly a stylized Moon Trump).

HB:Resh : The sigil is compound. Above is a six-pointed star, one point up, the points slender and the center formed by a "happy face". Below is a crescent with horns upward. The numbers 6 and 9 are dependent from the lower left and right points of the star. Three vertical dots descend from these on either side to pass just beyond the horns of the crescent. There are two Netteru symbols just inside these columns of dots, the one on the left having its head at top and to the right, the one on the right having its head at bottom to the left, within the hollow of the horns of the crescent. (This is generally modeled on a type of the Sun Trump, with indications of mutual oral intercourse.)

HB:Shin : This is a perspective drawing of a four sided pyramid, sides shaded and opening to the lower right as a tiny white rectangle at the base. There is a horizontally transverse rectangular chamber on the lower-left to upper right diagonal visible within the pyramid. (Clearly inspired by the tomb symbolism of the Judgment Trump).

HB:Taw : In the elongated box at the bottom of the table is a connected design. To the left is a thick numeral "1", sans-serif. To the right is a thick ring or zero. These are connected across the bottom by a squiggle which forms a vertical loop in center before continuing on. (Possible the 1 and 0 Thelemic motif).

The boxes of ...CARCERORUM QLIPHOTH..., mostly reflecting Tarot correspondences to the Hebrew letters with some astrological and Thelemic used as well. Most of these are too irregular in shape to permit exact description:

HB:Aleph : This is an open interior form shaped like an "E" made of string with an extension of the common loop to the left below. The thing has hair up the back and part way along the upper arm. There are needle teeth below on the upper arm and above on the middle arm. The general effect is like a grotesque head, virtually all mouth.

HB:Bet : This is a complex and decorative device. It is delineated on left and right by two curved swords, they are straight and curve in only at the top, cross hilted with serifs at bottom. There is an "equals" sign immediately below each hilt. Between the points at top is a thin crescent, horns up. A large and flat dish-shaped crescent, points up is at bottom, the lower arc broken by two pairs of very short transverse lines to right and left. There is a dot asymmetrically below the lower crescent to the left (possibly a printing fault). There is a small wiggling crescent shaped line like a smiling mouth above this. Three wavy lines are vertical on and to either side of center. Two dots like eyes complete the sigil between the upper ends of these lines. The whole figure is like a face emerging from smoke out of a bowl and between the two "swords".

HB:Gemel : This composite is a face. The eyes are two dots with small curved brows over them from the outside and not passing the center. The nose is a simple crosshilted sword, point to top. There is an oval with ocular ellipse inside at top for the mouth and a thin solid crescent for the chin. The cheeks are set forth by inward curving lines crowned at top by tiny outward tending, tiny curved clefts.

HB:Dalet : The basic figure is a vertical and flatly compressed "S" shape to left, a similar twig extending across that and past center at top. Below are three elongate drops with bulb to right forming a lower base with the end of the upright. Dependent on a short line from top is a water triangle with a fern-like stalk of three curls issuing at the top right base and drooping to the right.

HB:Heh : Two dot eyes beneath harry eyebrows. A plump "U" shape below that for a nose. A dot below that for a mouth. A beard formed of three crosses, two at cheeks and one at bottom and two squiggles between them.

HB:Vau : One vertical line diverging in two angle lines like a "Y" at top. This is crossed by a horizontal line at center and terminates below in a small cross. Just above the termination is a short horizontal line which diverges in two short diagonals ending below in crosses. The upper four line ends have the letter Yod as their terminators.

HB:Zain : A vertical forked stick in center, fork small at bottom. A curved arc across the lower quarter, ends down and terminating in linear shapes like earphones with the openings to the right. At an angle over the top of the stick a little below the upper end is a deep, thin, hollow crescent, horns up, the left higher. This crescent terminates on the right in a very small crescent, horns up to right, and is crossed by a short line just a bit below that. The short line ends in diverging thin crescents.

HB:Chet : This is a complex doodle. There is a squiggle beginning in the upper left area, forming somewhat of a tail for the head and neck of a camel extending across the center of the box. A simple line curves down from the base of the neck and attaches to the feet of a horizontal face-down human form at bottom.

HB:Tet : This is an odd sort of thing rather reminiscent of one or two of the elongate Goetic sigils. It has a harry face like that of a dog at the left, ears with the eyes dots and the nose and mouth represented by a straight line with a button at top. A flat dish on its side issues from this to form the body. There are four feet below represented by upright vesicas in a line, these being connected to the body by curved lines like knees angled to the left. There is a tail in the form of a curved line that issues from the far right end, curves above the body in parallel, makes a tight bend and curves back above that to trail off slightly upward at the very end.

HB:Ayin : This is a shape like that of the sigils of the Archangels. It is lineal, starts on the left center in curved line that comes up toward the center above. This bends back and down from a cusp in a tight little curve, then up again in a cusp and a slightly wider down curve, up to a cusp and then straight down for a short distance, small circular loop and curve up to right in another small circular loop. Then horizontal back to the left just through the top edge of the first loop and drooping down to end in a serif cross.

HB:Koph : Top center, a circle with horns at top and a cross of vertical and horizontal diameters inside. Below this a radial extends downward for a short distance and then breaks up into three flat "S" curves ended in simple loose crosses.

HB:Lamed : Composite figure: Simple Libra type balances to left and above, no support. The lower pan hangs at an angle toward the center. The bar is diagonal in the upper left quarter of the box. The upper pan is blown horizontal. There is a form like a hockey stick angled from the lower left toward the center with the head vertical. A human head tops this, looking to the right. A horizontal line crosses the stick head below the human one, the right end terminating in a circle with a black and sinuous Yod inside. The left takes a angle down and touches the lower balance pan. In the lower right is a sword, angled up toward the serif-cross hilt to the right.

HB:Mem : This is a storm cloud with eyes and a sort of mouth. It is very flat and five shapes like icicles hang from it to the left of center. The letters N V H are vertical below the cloud and to the right of the icicle shapes. There is a downward pointed fledged arrow parallel and to the right of the letters.

HB:Nun : Left center is an "X" of two crossed sticks with a flower in center. Just above and to the right is the point of a scythe blade, arcing up to above top center and beyond before it curves down in a lineal handle ending below center in a serif-cross hilt. A stylized and crowned corpse to right holds this in right hand (shown as a short of brush). The head is a simplified death head canted to the right. The neck is narrow, The body and left arm look like a plucked chicken with a wishbone for a tail.

HB:Samekh : Difficult to describe. The lower center is misshapen cross of Malta ending in a blunt pestle below. A narrow isosceles triangle touches to top of this from above with its point. There is a pair of tiny golf-club shapes at the top base of the triangle, heads turned outward. This complex depends from a line that diverges symmetrically to either side at top. This line is wavy and reaches down on the left to touch the bristle end of a shape like a shaving brush. The line on the right forms a vertical word: SKRL, and continues down and below the bottom in crumpled waves to connect up the to handle of the "brush".

HB:Ayin : Odd shapes. There is a figure like an apple with two tiny leaves to left and top. A face is on this with curves for shut eyes and a downward curve for a mouth (nose?). Below this is the letter "B". Issuing to the right from the mouth point is a hollow lineal figure of curved lines, two lobes at top, a letter "K" below that, the lower lobe extended in a shaft toward the left center bottom and a rounded end at the bottom. The letter "R" is to the right, a little below midway of this shaft. The letter "N" is beneath the shaft end.

HB:Peh : This is a barten with letters. The top has four crennels, simply, with the letter "D" in air above. The upper walls drop from the end crennels, right angle outward and then drop to the base. The base continues the walls with another small angle outward and a drop to a horizontal line across the bottom and extending slightly beyond each wall. There is a flattened rectangle within this base. An inverted "U" with serifs forms the door above this rectangle, and there is an inverted Latin cross hanging from the top inside that. Two windows complete the structure, inverted "U" shaped with flats cutting off the bottoms and inverted Latin Crosses acting to divide them are situated in the upper section and just past the first outward bends. The upper walls are flanked to left by "N" and to right by "V". The lower walls are flanked to left by "V" and to the right by "S". The base is flanked on the left by "M" and the right by "D". The word "SUE" is beneath the base.

HB:Tzaddi : This is one image. The lower part is a face, natural chin and sides smoothly going up until the ears appear as short laps to either side. Above this are two tapering lines, curved from below the ears and ascending in slight convergence to the top half of the image, about twice the height of the face above the chin. At this point there is a structure composed of two semicircles. The arcs are broken by vertical lines with a gap between in the lower part. In the upper part the arcs are interrupted by vertical elipsoid with a smaller horizontal elipsoid at top. The details of the face itself are a natural mouth, a little "U" shaped nose, two dots for eyes, brows meeting in a third arch.

HB:Qof : Three black crescents, horns down, are in vertical array in the center. They dwindle from the largest on top to a smaller near the bottom. Below the lowest of these is a vesica on its side. There is a fan of lines extending down from the upper arc of the vesica, creating an image a bit like a shell. To the right of this shell a series of seven crescents arcs upward to the right and comes a bit back toward the center at top. These crescents have horns downward at various angles to accommodate the curve, and the size increases slightly as they rise. A similar curve of crescents proceeds upward and to the left from just beyond the left side of the shell. These are more strongly incurved at top and reach nearly to the upper border of the box. There are twelve in this curve, with the ones near the shell being about half the size of those ending the curve near the upper limit, waxing in overall size as they go up.

HB:Resh : There are four elements to the sigil. In the center above is a black disk, the lower edge of it has a slender white crescent. Below this is a small horned circle with a dot in center. A line descends vertically from this small circle. A short horizontal bar crosses this line near the bottom and the ends of this bar drop verticals just short of the termination level of the main vertical line. Neteru are on either side, the one on the left has the head at top left, that on the right has its head at top right.

HB:Shin : This is a face melded into an exploded drawing of a rectangular box. The top rectangle has "NON" inside. The next rectangle has small rectangular "ears" to either side and "PAT" inside. The next down rectangle has "EBO" inside. The bottom contiguous rectangle has a set of lips and a lower lip fringe beard. To the left and right of the upper rectangle are two angled dashes for eyes and beyond them two slight curved lines for brows.

HB:Taw : This is a strange sigil. From the right: Two large lower case letter "i"'s, sansserf. From near the bottom of the left most is a horizontal squiggle of three vertical loops, then a curve to vertical and another horizontal squiggle of five downward loops, the last loop of this starts an arched squiggle up to the top of the next structure. The next structure is a vertical bar, from the bottom of which a curved squiggle arches right and about, crossing the second horizontal squiggle and reaching back over the left top to the upper end of a second parallel bar. From the bottom of this second bar a squiggle diagonals up about half the height of the bar to the left, continuing as a horizontal squiggle into the underside of the last element in the sigil. This element loops like a simplified drawing of a turtle, head downward and belly toward left. Back spotted in the pattern of Acquisitio and only two legs showing. This last could also be a sheep, such is the simplicity of the drawing.}

LIBER CCXXXI

(This book is true up to the grade of Adeptus Exemptus. V.V.V.V.V. 8 Degree, 3Square.) 0. A, the heart of IAO, dwelleth in ecstasy in the secret place of the thunders. Between Asar and Asi he abideth in joy.
The lightnings increased and the Lord Tahuti stood forth. The Voice came from the Silence. Then the One ran and returned.
Now hath Nuit veiled herself, that she may open the gate of her sister.
The Virgin of God is enthroned upon an oyster-shell; she is like a pearl, and seeketh Seventy to her Four. In her heart is Hadit the invisible glory.
Now riseth Ra-Hoor-Khuit, and dominion is established in the Star of the Flame.
Also is the Star of the Flame exalted, bringing benediction to the universe.
Here then beneath the winged Eros is youth, delighting in the one and the other. He is Asar between Asi and Nepthi; he cometh forth from the veil.
He rideth upon the chariot of eternity; the white and the black are harnessed to his car. Therefore he reflecteth the Fool, and the sevenfold veil is reveiled. {71}
Also came forth mother Earth with her lion, even Sekhet, the lady of Asi.
Also the Priest veiled himself, lest his glory be profaned, lest his word be lost in the multitude.
Now then the Father of all issued as a mighty wheel; the Sphinx, and the dog-headed god, and Typhon, were bound on his circumference.
Also the lady Maat with her feather and her sword abode to judge the righteous. For Fate was already established.
Then the holy one appeared in the great water of the North; as a golden dawn did he appear, bringing benediction to the fallen universe.
Also Asar was hidden in Amennti; and the Lords of Time swept over him with the sickle of death.
And a mighty angel appeared as a woman, pouring vials of woe upon the flames, lighting the pure stream with her brand of cursing. And the iniquity was very great.
Then the Lord Khem arose, He who is holy among the highest, and set up his crowned staff for to redeem the universe.
He smote the towers of wailing; he brake them in pieces in the fire of his anger, so that he alone did escape from the ruin thereof.
Transformed, the holy virgin appeared as a fluidic fire, making her beauty into a thunderbolt.
By her spells she invoked the Scarab, the Lord Kheph-Ra, so that the waters were cloven and the illusion of the towers was destroyed. {72}
Then the sun did appear unclouded, and the mouth of Asi was on the mouth of Asar.
Then also the Pyramid was builded so that the Initiation might be complete.
And in the heart of the Sphinx danced the Lord Adonai, in His garlands of roses and pearls making glad the concourse of things; yea, making glad the concourse of things.
       THE GENII OF THE 22 SCALES OF THE SERPENT AND OF THE QLIPHOTH



Aleph     Aa'au-iao-ua'aa [a'a=Ayin ] .      .      .      .   :Amprodias

Bet       Bea'a-theta-aoooabitom      .      .      .      .   :Baratchial

Gemel     Git-omega-nosap-phi-omeg-allois    .      .      .   :Gargophias

Dalet     D-etanastartar-omega-theta  .      .      .      .   :Dagdagiel

Heh       Hoo-oor-omega-ist    .      .      .      .      .   :Hemethterith

Vau       Vuaretza --- [a secret name follows]      .      .   :Uriens

Zain      Zoo-omega-asar .     .      .      .      .      .   :Zamradiel

Chet      Chiva-abrahadabra-cadaxviii .      .      .      .   :Characith

Tet       Theta-ala'aster-a-dekerval  .      .      .      .   :Temphioth

Yod       Iehuvahastana'a-theta-atan  .      .      .      .   :Yamatu

Koph      Kerugunaviel  .      .      .      .      .      .   :Kurgasiax

Lamed     Lusanaherandraton    .      .      .      .      .   :Lafcursiax

Mem       Malai   .     .      .      .      .      .      .   :Malkunofat

Nun       Nadimraphoroiza'a-theta-alai       .      .      .   :Niantiel

Samekh    Sala-theta-lala-amrodna-theta-a'aist      .      .   :Saksaksalim

Ayin      Oaoaaaoooa'a-ist     .      .      .      .      .   :A'ano'nin

Peh       Pura-theta-metai-ap-eta-metai      .      .      .   :Parfaxitas

Tzaddi    Xan-theta-asteransh-koppa-ist [sh koppa = sh, q] .   :Tzuflifu

Qof       Qani-Delta-nayx-ipamai      .      .      .      .   :Qulielfi

Resh      Ra-a-gioselahladnaimawa-ist .      .      .      .   :Raflifu

Shin      Shabnax-odobor       .      .      .      .      .   :Shalicu

Taw       Thath'th'thitha'athuth-thist.      .      .      .   :Thantifaxath



{73}







         NOTE BY H. FRA. P. 4 Degree = 7Square (1899) ON THE R.O.T.A. BY THE

                         QABALAH OF NINE CHAMBERS



Units are divine --- The upright Triangle.

Tens reflected --- The averse Triangle.

Hundreds equilibrated --- The Hexagram their combination.



1. "Light." ---[Here can be no evil.] Aleph  The hidden light---the "wisdom of

                                      God foolishness with men.

                                      Yod  The Adept bearing Light.

                                      Qof  The Light in darkness and illusion.

                                        [Khephra about to rise.]



2. "Action." --- Bet  Active and Passive --- dual current, etc. --- the

                  Alternating Forces in Harmony.

                 Koph  The Contending Forces --- fluctuation of earth-life.

                 Resh  The Twins embracing --- eventual glory of harmonised

                  life under Sun.



3. "The Way." --- [Here also no evil.] Gemel  The Higher Self.

                                     Lamed  The severe discipline of the Path.

                                     Shin  The judgment and resurrection

                             [0 Degree=0Square and 5 Degree=6Square rituals.]



4. "Life." --- Dalet  The Mother of god.  Aima.

               Mem  The Son Slain.

               Taw  The Bride.



5. "Force" (Purification). --- Heh  The Supernal Sulphur purifying by fire.

                               Nun  The Infernal Water Scorpio purifying by

                                putrefaction.

                               This work is not complete; therefore is

                                    there no equilibration.



6. "Harmony." --- Vau  The Reconciler [Vau  of Yod-Heh-Vau-Heh] above.

                  Samekh  The Reconciler below [lion and eagle, etc.].

                  This work also unfinished.



7. "Birth." --- Zain  The Powers of Spiritual Regeneration.

                [The Z.A.M. as Osiris risen between Isis and Nephthys.

                     The path of Gemel, Diana, above his head.]

                Ayin  The gross powers of generation.



8. "Rule." --- Chet  The Orderly Ruling of diverse forces.

               Peh  The Ruin of the Unbalanced Forces.



9. "Stability." --- Tet  The Force that represses evil.

                    Tzaddi  The Force that restores the world ruined by evil.



{74}

Liber CCXLI

Publication in Class C


Aha!

The Sevenfold Mystery of the Ineffable Love; the Coming of the Lord in the Air as King and Judge of this corrupted World;

Wherein

Under the form of a Discourse between Marsyas an Adept and Olympas his Pupil the Whole Secret of the Way of Initiation is laid open from the Beginning to the End; for the Instruction of the Little Children of the Light.

Written in Trembling and Humility for the Brethren of the A.'. A.'. by Their very dutiful Servant, an Aspirant to their Sublime Order,

Aleister Crowley

THE ARGUMENTATION

A LITTLE before Dawn, the pupil comes to greet his Master, and begs instruction.

Inspired by his Angel, he demands the Doctrine of being rapt away into the Knowledge and Conversation of Him.

The Master discloses the doctrine of Passive Attention or Waiting.

This seeming hard to the Pupil, it is explained further, and the Method of Resignation, Constancy, and Patience inculcated. The Paradox of Equilibrium. The necessity of giving oneself wholly up the the new element. Egoism rebuked.

The Master, to illustrate this Destruction of the Ego, describes the Visions of Dhyana.

He further describes the defence of the Soul against assailing Thoughts, and shows that the duality of Consciousness is a blasphemy against the Unity of God; so that even the thought called God is a denial of God-as-He-is-in-Himself.

The pupil sees nothing but a blank midnight in this Emptying of the Soul. He is shown that this is the necessary condition of Illumination. Distinction is further made between these three Dhyanas, and those early visions in which things appear as objective. With these three Dhyanas, moreover, are Four other of the Four Elements: and many more.

Above these is the Veil of Paroketh. Its guardians.

The Rosy Cross lies beyond this veil, and therewith the vision called Vishvarupadarshana. Moreover, there is the Knowledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel.

The infinite number and variety of these Visions.

The impossibility of revealing all these truths to the outer and uninitiated world.

The Vision of the Universal Peacock--Atmadarshana. The confusion of the Mind, and the Perception of its self-contradiction.

The Second Veil--the Veil of the Abyss.

The fatuity of Speech.

A discussion as to the means by which the vision arises in the pure Soul is useless; suffice it that in the impure Soul no Vision will arise. The practical course is therefore to cleanse the Soul.

The four powers of the Sphinx; even adepts hardly attain to one of them!

The final Destruction of the Ego.

The Master confesses that he has lured the disciple by the promise of Joy, as the only thing comprehensible by him, although pain and joy are transcended even in early visions.

Ananda (bliss)--and its opposite--mark the first steps of the path. Ultimately all things are transcended; and even so, this attainment of Peace is but as a scaffolding to the Palace of the King.

The sheaths of the soul. The abandonment of all is necessary; the adept recalls his own tortures, as all that he loved was torn away.

The Ordeal of the Veil of the Abyss; the Unbinding of the Fabric of Mind, and its ruin.

The distinction between philosoÿhical credence and interior certitude.

Sammasati--the trance wherein the adept perceives his causal connection with the Universe; past, present, and future.

Mastering the Reason, he becomes as a little child, and invokes his Holy Guardian Angel, the Augoeides.

Atmadarshana arising is destroyed by the Opening of the Eye of Shiva; the annihilation of the Universe. The adept is destroyed, and there arises the Master of the Temple.

The pupil, struck with awe, proclaims his devotion to the Master; whereat the latter bids him rather unite himself with the Augoeides.

Yet, following the great annihilation, the adept reappears as an Angel to instruct men in this doctrine.

The Majesty of the Master described.

The pupil, wonder-struck, swears to attain, and asks for further instruction.

The Master describes the Eight Limbs of Yoga.

The pupil lamenting the difficulty of attainment, the Master shows forth the sweetness of the hermit's life.

One doubt remains: will not the world be able instantly to recognise the Saint? The Master replies that only imperfect Saints reveal themselves as such. Of these are the cranks and charlatans, and those that fear and deny Life. But let us fix our thoughts on Love, and not on the failings of others!

The Master invokes the Augoeides; the pupil through sympathy is almost rapt away.

The Augoeides hath given the Master a message; namely, to manifest the New Way of the Equinox of Horus, as revealed in Liber Legis.

He does so, and reconciles it with the Old Way by inviting the Test of Experiment. They would go therefore to the Desert or the Mountains--nay! here and now shall it be accomplished.

Peace to all beings!

AHA!

OLYMPAS.	Master, ere the ruby Dawn
Gild the dew of leaf and lawn,
Bidding the petals to unclose
Of heaven's imperishable Rose,
Brave heralds, banners flung afar
Of the lone and secret star,
I come to greet thee. Here I bow
To earth this consecrated brow!
As a lover woos the Moon
Aching in a silver swoon,
I reach my lips towards thy shoon,
Mendicant of the mystic boon!
MARSYAS.	What wilt thou?
OLYMPAS.	Let mine Angel say!
"Utterly to be rapt away!"
MARSYAS.	How, whence, and whither?
OLYMPAS.	By my kiss
From that abode to this--to this!"
My wings?
MARSYAS.	Thou hast no wings. But see
An eagle sweeping from the Byss
Where God stands. Let him ravish thee,
And bear thee to a boundless bliss!
OLYMPAS.	How should I call him? How beseech?
MARSYAS.	Silence is lovelier than Speech. 
Only on a windless tree
Falls the dew, Felicity!
One ripple on the water mars
The magic mirror of the Stars.
OLYMPAS.	My soul bends to the athletic stress
Of God's immortal loveliness. 
Tell me, what wit avails the clod
To know the nearness of its God?
MARSYAS.	First, let the soul be poised, and fledge
Truth's feather on mind's razor-edge. 
Next, let no memory, feeling, hope
Stain all its starless horoscope. 
Last, let it be content, twice void;
Not to be suffered or enjoyed;
Motionless, blind and deaf and dumb---
So may it to its kingdom come!
OLYMPAS.	Dear master, can this be? The wine
Embittered with dark discipline?
For the soul loves her mate, the sense.
MARSYAS.	This bed is sterile. Thou must fence
Thy soul from all her foes, the creatures
That by their soft and siren natures
Lure thee to shipwreck!
OLYMPAS.	Thou hast said:
"God is in all. "
MARSYAS.	In sooth.
OLYMPAS.	Why dread
The Godhood?
MARSYAS.	Only as the thought
Is God, adore it. But the soul creates
Misshapen fiends, incestuous mates. 
Slay these: they are false shadows of
The never-waning moon of love.
OLYMPAS.	What thought is worthy?
MARSYAS.	Truly none
Save one, in that it is but one. 
Keep the mind constant; thou shalt see
Ineffable felicity. 
Increase the will, and thou shalt find
It hath the strength to be resigned. 
Resign the will; and from the string
Will's arrow shall have taken wing,
And from the desolate abode
Found the immaculate heart of God!
OLYMPAS.	The word is hard!
MARSYAS.	All things excite
Their equal and their pposite. 
Be great, and thou shalt be--how small!
Be naught, and thou shalt be the All!
Eat not; all meat shall fill thy mouth:
Drink, and thy soul shall die of drouth!
Fill thyself; and that thou seekest
Is diluted to its weakest. 
Empty thyself; the ghosts of night
Flee before the living Light. 
Who clutches straws is drowned; but he
That hath the secret of the sea,
Lives with the whole lust of his limbs,
Takes hold of water's self, and swims. 
See, the ungainly albatross
Stumbles awkwardly across
Earth--one wing-beat, and he flies
Most graceful gallant in the skies!
So do thou leave thy thoughts, intent
On thy new noble element!
Throw the earth shackles off, and cling
To what imperishable thing
Arises from the Married death
Of thine own self in that whereon
Thou art fixed.
OLYMPAS.	Then all life's loyal breath
Is a waste wind. All joy forgone,
I must strive ever?
MARSYAS.	Cease to strive!
Destroy this partial I, this moan
Of an hurt beast! Sores keep alive
By scratching. Health is peace. Unknown
And unexpressed because at ease
Are the Most High Congruities.
OLYMPAS.	Then death is thine "attainment"? I
Can do no better than to die!
MARSYAS.	Indeed, that "I" that is not God
Is but a lion in the road!
Knowest thou not (even now!) how first
The fetters of Restriction burst?
In the rapture of the heart
Self hath neither lot nor part.
OLYMPAS.	Tell me, dear master, how the bud
First breaks to brilliance of bloom:
What ecstasy of brain and blood
Shatters the seal upon the tomb
Of him whose gain was the world's loss
Our father Christian Rosycross!
MARSYAS.	First, one is like a gnarled old oak
On a waste heath. Shrill shrieks the wind. 
Night smothers earth. Storm swirls to choke
The throat of silence! Hard behind
Gathers a blacker cloud than all. 
But look! but look! it thrones a ball
Of blistering fire. It breaks. The lash
Of lightning snakes him forth. One crash
Splits the old tree. One rending roar!---
And night is darker than before.
OLYMPAS.	Nay, master, master! Terror hath
So fierce an hold upon the path?
Life must lie crushed, a charred black swath,
In that red harvest's aftermath!
MARSYAS.	Life lives. Storm passes. Clouds dislimn. 
The night is clear. And now to him
Who hath endured is given the boon
Of an immeasurable moon. 
The air about the adept congeals
To crystal; in his heart he feels
One needle pang; then breaks that splendour
Infinitely pure and tender ...
--And the ice drags him down!
OLYMPAS.	But may
Our trembling frame, our clumsy clay,
Endure such anguish?
MARSYAS.	In the worm
Lurks an unconquerable germ
Identical. A sparrow's fall
Were the Destruction of the All!
More; know that this surpasses skill
To express its ecstasy. The thrill
Burns in the memory like the glory
Of some far beaconed promontory
Where no light shines but on the comb
Of breakers, flickerings of the foam!
OLYMPAS.	The path ends here?
MARSYAS.	Ingenuous one!
The path--the true path--scarce begun. 
When does the night end?
OLYMPAS.	When the sun,
Crouching below the horizon,
Flings up his head, tosses his mane,
Ready to leap.
MARSYAS.	Even so. Again
The adept secures his subtle fence
Against the hostile shafts of sense,
Pins for a second his mind; as you
May have seen some huge wrestler do. 
With all his gathered weight heaped, hurled,
Resistless as the whirling world,
He holds his foeman to the floor
For one great moment and no more. 
So--then the sun-blaze! All the night
Bursts to a vivid orb of light. 
There is no shadow; nothing is,
But the intensity of bliss. 
Being is blasted. That exists.
OLYMPAS.	Ah!
MARSYAS.	But the mind, that mothers mists,
Abides not there. The adept must fall
Exhausted.
OLYMPAS.	There's an end of all?
MARSYAS.	But not an end of this! Above
All life as is the pulse of love,
So this transcends all love.
OLYMPAS.	Ah me!
Who may attain?
MARSYAS.	Rare souls.
OLYMPAS.	I see
Imaged a shadow of this light.
MARSYAS.	Such is its sacramental might
That to recall it radiates
Its symbol. The priest elevates
The Host, and instant blessing stirs
The hushed awaiting worshippers.
OLYMPAS.	Then how secure the soul's defence?
How baffle the besieger, Sense?
MARSYAS.	See the beleagured city, hurt
By hideous engines, sore begirt
And gripped by lines of death, well scored
With shell, nigh oÿen to the sword!
Now comes the leader; courage, run
Contagious through the garrison!
Repair the trenches! Man the wall!
Restore the ruined arsenal!
Serve the great guns! The assailants blench;
They are driven from the foremost trench. 
The deadliest batteries belch their hell
No more. So day by day fought well,
We silence gun by gun. At last
The fiercest of the fray is past;
The circling hills are ours. The attack
Is over, save for the rare crack,
Long dropping shots from hidden forts;---
--So is it with our thoughts!
OLYMPAS.	The hostile thoughts, the evil things!
They hover on majestic wings,
Like vultures waiting for a man
To drop from the slave-caravan!
MARSYAS.	All thoughts are evil. Thought is two:
The seer and the seen. Eschew
That supreme blasphemy, my son,
Remembering that God is One.
OLYMPAS.	God is a thought!
MARSYAS.	The "thought" of God
Is but a shattered emerod:
A plague, an idol, a delusion,
Blasphemy, schism, and confusion!
OLYMPAS	Banish my one high thought? The night
Indeed were starless.
MARSYAS	Very right!
But that impalpable inane
Is the condition of success;
Even as earth lies black to gain
Spring's green and autumn's fruitfulness.
OLYMPAS	I dread this midnight of the soul.
MARSYAS	Welcome the herald!
OLYMPAS	How control
The horror of the mind? The insane
Dead melancholy?
MARSYAS	Trick is vain. 
Sheer manhood must support the strife,
And the trained Will, the Root of Life,
Bear the adept triumphant.
OLYMPAS	Else?
MARSYAS	The reason, like a chime of bells
Ripped by the lightning, cracks.
OLYMPAS	And these
Are the first sights the magus sees?
MARSYAS	The first true sights. Bright images
Throng the clear mind at first, a crowd
Of Gods, lights, armies, landscapes; loud
Reverberations of the Light. 
But these are dreams, things in the mind,
Reveries, idols. Thou shalt find
No rest therein. The former three
(Lightning, moon, sun) are royally
Liminal to the Hall of Truth. 
Also there be with them, in sooth,
Their brethren. There's the vision called
The Lion of the Light, a brand
Of ruby flame and emerald
Waved by the Hermeneutic Hand. 
There is the Chalice, whence the flood
Of God's beatitude of blood
Flames. O to sing those starry tunes!
O colder than a million moons!
O vestal waters! Wine of love
Wan as the lyric soul thereof!
There is the Wind, a whirling sword,
The savage rapture of the air
Tossed beyond space and time. My Lord,
My Lord, even now I see Thee there
In infinite motion! And beyond
There is the Disk, the wheel of things;
Like a black boundless diamond
Whirring with millions of wings!
OLYMPAS	Master!
MARSYAS	Know also that above
These portents hangs no veil of love;
But, guarded by unsleeping eyes
Of twice seven score severities,
The Veil that only rips apart
When the spear strikes to Jesus' heart!
A mighty Guard of Fire are they
With sabres turning every way!
Their eyes are millstones greater than
The earth; their mouths run seas of blood. 
Woe be to that accursäd man
Of whom they are the iniquities!
Swept in their wrath's avenging flood
To black immitigable seas!
Woe to the seeker who shall fail
To rend that vexful virgin Veil!
Fashion thyself by austere craft
Into a single azure shaft
Loosed from the string of Will; behold
The Rainbow! Thou art shot, pure flame,
Past the reverberated Name
Into the Hall of Death. Therein
The Rosy Cross is subtly seen.
OLYMPAS	Is that a vision, then?
MARSYAS	It is.
OLYMPAS	Tell me thereof!
MARSYAS	O not of this!
Of all the flowers in God's field
We name not this. Our lips are sealed
In that the Universal Key
Lieth within its mystery. 
But know thou this. These visions give
A hint both faint and fugitive
Yet haunting, that behind them lurks
Some Worker, greater than his works. 

Yea, it is given to him who girds
His loins up, is not fooled by words,
Who takes life lightly in his hand
To throw away at Will's command,
To know that View beyond the Veil. 

O petty purities and pale,
These visions I have spoken of!
The infinite Lord of Light and Love
Breaks on the soul like dawn. See! See!
Great God of Might and Majesty!
Beyond sense, beyond sight, a brilliance
Burning from His glowing glance!
Formless, all the worlds of flame
Atoms of that fiery frame!
The adept caught up and broken;
Slain, before His Name be spoken!
In that fire the soul burns up. 
One drop from that celestial cup
Is an abyss, an infinite sea
That sucks up immortality!
O but the Self is manifest
Through all that blaze! Memory stumbles
Like a blind man for all the rest. 
Speech, like a crag of limestone, crumbles,
While this one soul of thought is sure
Through all confusion to endure,
Infinite Truth in one small span:
This that is God is Man.
OLYMPAS	Master! I tremble and rejoice.
MARSYAS	Before His own authentic voice
Doubt flees. The chattering choughs of talk
Scatter like sparrows from a hawk.
OLYMPAS	Thenceforth the adept is certain of
The mystic mountain? Light and Love
Are Life therein, and they are his?
MARSYAS	Even so. And One supreme there is
Whom I have known, being He. Withdrawn
Within the curtains of the dawn
Dwells that concealed. Behold! he is
A blush, a breeze, a song, a kiss,
A rosy flame like Love, his eyes
Blue, the quintessence of all skies,
His hair a foam of gossamer
Pale gold as jasmine, lovelier
Than all the wheat of Paradise. 
O the dim water-wells his eyes!
There is such depth of Love in them
That the adept is rapt away,
Dies on that mouth, a gleaming gem
Of dew caught in the boughs of Day!
OLYMPAS	The hearing of it is so sweet
I swoon to silence at thy feet.
OLYMPAS	Exhaust
The Word!
MARSYAS	Had I a million songs,
And every song a million words,
And every word a million meanings,
I could not count the choral throngs
Of Beauty's beatific birds,
Or gather up the paltry gleanings
Of this great harvest of delight!
Hast thou not heard the word aright?
That world is truly infinite. 
Even as a cube is to a square
Is that to this.
OLYMPAS	Royal and rare!
Infinite light of burning wheels!
MARSYAS	Ay! The imagination reels. 
Thou must attain before thou know,
And when thou knowest--Mighty woe
That silence grips the willing lips!
OLYMPAS	Ever was speech the thought's eclipse.
MARSYAS	Ay, not to veil the truth to him
Who sought it, groping in the dim
Halls of illusion, said the sages
In all the realms, in all the ages,
"Keep silence. " By a word should come
Your sight, and we who see are dumb!
We have sought a thousand times to teach
Our knowledge; we are mocked by speech. 
So lewdly mocked, that all this word
Seems dead, a cloudy crystal blurred,
Though it cling closer to life's heart
Than the best rhapsodies of art!
OLYMPAS	Yet speak!
MARSYAS	Ah, could I tell thee of
These infinite things of Light and Love!
There is the Peacock; in his fan
Innumerable plumes of Pan!
Oh! every plume hath countless eyes;
--Crown of created mysteries!---
Each holds a Peacock like the First.
OLYMPAS	How can this be?
MARSYAS	The mind's accurst. 
It cannot be. It is. Behold,
Battalion on battalion rolled!
There is war in Heaven! The soul sings still,
Struck by the plectron of the Will;
But the mind's dumb; its only cry
The shriek of its last agony!
OLYMPAS	Surely it struggles.
MARSYAS	Bitterly!
And, mark! it must be strong to die!
The weak and partial reason dips
One edge, another springs, as when
A melting iceberg reels and tips
Under the sun. Be mighty then,
A lord of Thought, beyond wit and wonder
Balanced--then push the whole mind under,
Sunk beyond chance of floating, blent
Rightly with its own element,
Not lifting jagged peaks and bare
To the unsympathetic air!

This is the second veil; and hence
As first we slew the things of sense
Upon the altar of their God,
So must the Second Period
Slay the ideas, to attain
To that which is, beyond the brain.
OLYMPAS	To that which is?--not thought? not sense?
MARSYAS	Knowledge is but experience
Made conscious of itself. The bee,
Past master of geometry,
Hath not one word of all of it;
For wisdom is not mother-wit!
So the adept is called insane
For his frank failure to explain. 
Language creates false thoughts; the true
Breed language slowly. Following
Experience of a thing we knew
Arose the need to name the thing. 
So, ancients likened a man's mind
To the untamed evasive wind. 
Some fool thinks names are things; and boasts
Aloud of spirits and of ghosts. 
Religion follows on a pun!
And we, who know that Holy One
Of whom I told thee, seek in vain
Figure or word to make it plain.
OLYMPAS	Despair of man!
MARSYAS	Man is the seed
Of the unimaginable flower. 
By singleness of thought and deed
It may bloom now--this actual hour!
OLYMPAS	The soul made safe, is vision sure
To rise therein?
MARSYAS	Though calm and pure
It seem, maybe some thought hath crept
Into his mind to baulk the adept. 
The expectation of success
Suffices to destroy the stress
Of the one thought. But then, what odds?
"Man's vision goes, dissolves in God's;"
Or, "by God's grace the Light is given
To the elected heir of heaven. "
These are but idle theses, dry
Dugs of the cow Theology. 
Business is business. The one fact
That we know is: the gods exact
A stainless mirror. Cleanse thy soul!
Perfect the will's austere control!
For the rest, wait! The sky once clear,
Dawn needs no prompting to appear!
OLYMPAS	Enough! it shall be done.
MARSYAS	Beware!
Easily trips the big word "dare. "
Each man's an OEdipus, that thinks
He hath the four powers of the Sphinx,
Will, Courage, Knowledge, Silence. Son,
Even the adepts scarce win to one!
Thy Thoughts--they fall like rotten fruits. 
But to destroy the power that makes
These thoughts--thy Self? A man it takes
To tear his soul up by the roots!
This is the mandrake fable, boy!
OLYMPAS	You told me that the Path was joy.
MARSYAS	A lie to lure thee!
OLYMPAS	Master!
MARSYAS	Pain
And joy are twin toys of the brain. 
Even early visions pass beyond!
OLYMPAS	Not all the crabbed runes I have conned
Told me so plain a truth. I see,
Inscrutable Simplicity!
Crushed like a blind-worm by the heel
Of all I am, perceive, and feel,
My truth was but the partial pang
That chanced to strike me as I sang.
MARSYAS	In the beginning, violence
Marks the extinction of the sense. 
Anguish and rapture rack the soul. 
These are disruptions of control. 
Self-poised, a brooding hawk, there hangs
In the still air the adept. The bull
On the firm earth goes not so smooth!
So the first fine ecstatic pangs
Pass; balance comes.
OLYMPAS	How wonderful
Are these tall avenues of truth!
MARSYAS	So the first flash of light and terror
Is seen as shadow, known as error. 
Next, light comes as light; as it grows
The sense of peace still steadier glows;
And the fierce lust, that linked the soul
To its God, attains a chaste control. 
Intimate, an atomic bliss,
Is the last phrasing of that kiss. 
Not ecstasy, but peace, pure peace!

Invisible the dew sublimes
From the great mother, subtly climbs
And loves the leaves! Yea, in the end,
Vision all vision must transcend. 
These glories are mere scaffolding
To the Closed Palace of the King.
OLYMPAS	Yet, saidst thou, ere the new flower shoots
The soul is torn up by the roots.
MARSYAS	Now come we to the intimate things
Known to how few! Man's being clings
First to the outer. Free from these
The inner sheathings, and he sees
Those sheathings as external. Strip
One after one each lovely lip
From the full rose-but! Ever new
Leaps the next petal to the view. 
What binds them by Desire? Disease
Most dire of direful Destiny's!
OLYMPAS	I have abandoned all to tread
The brilliant pathway overhead!
MARSYAS	Easy to say. To abandon all,
All must be first loved and possessed. 
Nor thou nor I have burst the thrall. 
All--as I offered half in jest,
Sceptic--was torn away from me. 
Not without pain! THEY slew my child,
Dragged my wife down to infamy
Loathlier than death, drove to the wild
My tortured body, stripped me of
Wealth, health, youth, beauty, ardour, love. 
Thou has abandoned all? Then try
A speck of dust within the eye!
OLYMPAS	But that is different!
MARSYAS	Life is one. 
Magic is life. The physical
(Men name it) is a house of call
For the adept, heir of the sun!
Bombard the house! it groans and gapes. 
The adept runs forth, and so escapes
That ruin!
OLYMPAS	Smoothly parallel
The ruin of the mind as well?
MARSYAS	Ay! Hear the Ordeal of the Veil,
The Second Veil! ... O spare me this
Magical memory! I pale
To show the Veil of the Abyss. 
Nay, let confession be complete!
OLYMPAS	Master, I bend me at thy feet---
Why do they sweat with blood and dew?
MARSYAS	Blind horror catches at my breath. 
The path of the abyss runs through
Things darker, dismaller than death!
Courage and will! What boots their force?
The mind rears like a frightened horse. 
There is no memory possible
Of that unfathomable hell. 
Even the shadows that arise
Are things to dreadful to recount!
There's no such doom in Destiny's
Harvest of horror. The white fount
Of speech is stifled at its source. 
Know, the sane spirit keeps its course
By this, that everything it thinks
Hath causal or contingent links. 
Destroy them, and destroy the mind!
O bestial, bottomless, and blind
Black pit of all insanity!
The adept must make his way to thee!
This is the end of all our pain,
The dissolution of the brain!
For lo! in this no mortar sticks;
Down come the house--a hail of bricks!
The sense of all I hear is drowned;
Tap, tap, isolated sound,
Patters, clatters, batters, chatters,
Tap, tap, tap, and nothing matters!
Senseless hallucinations roll
Across the curtain of the soul. 
Each ripple on the river seems
The madness of a maniac's dreams!
So in the self no memory-chain
Or causal wisp to bind the straws!
The Self disrupted! Blank, insane,
Both of existence and of laws,
The Ego and the Universe
Fall to one black chaotic curse.
OLYMPAS	So ends philosoÿhy's inquiry:
"Summa scientia nihil scire. "
MARSYAS	Ay, but that reasoned thesis lacks
The impact of reality. 
This vision is a battle axe
Splitting the skull. O pardon me!
But my soul faints, my stomach sinks. 
Let me pass on!
OLYMPAS	My being drinks
The nectar-poison of the Sphinx. 
This is a bitter medicine!
MARSYAS	Black snare that I was taken in!
How one may pass I hardly know. 
Maybe time never blots the track. 
Black, black, intolerably black!
Go, spectre of the ages, go!
Suffice it that I passed beyond. 
I found the secret of the bond
Of thought to thought through countless years
Through many lives, in many spheres,
Brought to a point the dark design
Of this existence that is mine. 
I knew my secret. "All I was"
I brought into the burning-glass,
And all its focussed light and heat
Charred "all I am. " The rune's complete
When "all I shall be" flashes by
Like a shadow on the sky. 

Then I dropped my reasoning. 
Vacant and accursed thing!
By my Will I swept away
The web of metaphysic, smiled
At the blind labyrinth, where the grey
Old snake of madness wove his wild
Curse! As I trod the trackless way
Through sunless gorges of Cathay,
I became a little child. 
By nameless rivers, swirling through
Chasms, a fantastic blue,
Month by month, on barren hills,
In burning heat, in bitter chills,
Trÿic forest, Tartar snow,
Smaragdine archipelago,
See me--led by some wise hand
That I did not understand. 
Morn and noon and eve and night
I, the forlorn eremite,
Called on Him with mild devotion,
As the dew-drop woos the ocean. 

In my wanderings I came
To an ancient park aflame
With fairies' feet. Still wrapped in love
I was caught up, beyond, above
The tides of being. The great sight
Of the intolerable light
Of the whole universe that wove
The labyrinth of life and love
Blazed in me. Then some giant will,
Mine or another's thrust a thrill
Through the great vision. All the light
Went out in an immortal night,
The world annihilated by
The opening of the Master's Eye. 
How can I tell it?
OLYMPAS	Master, master!
A sense of some divine disaster
Abases me.
MARSYAS	Indeed, the shrine
Is desolate of the divine!
But all the illusion gone, behold
The one that is!
OLYMPAS	Royally rolled,
I hear strange music in the air!
MARSYAS	It is the angelic choir, aware
Of the great Ordeal dared and done
By one more Brother of the Sun!
OLYMPAS	Master, the shriek of a great bird
Blends with the torrent of the thunder.
MARSYAS	It is the echo of the word
That tore the universe asunder.
OLYMPAS	Master, thy stature spans the sky.
MARSYAS	Verily; but it is not I. 
The adept dissolves--pale phantom form
Blown from the black mouth of the storm. 
It is another that arises!
OLYMPAS	Yet in thee, through thee!
MARSYAS	I am not.
OLYMPAS	For me thou art.
MARSYAS	So that suffices
To seal thy will? To cast thy lot
Into the lap of God? Then, well!
OLYMPAS	Ay, there is no more potent spell. 
Through life, through death, by land and sea
Most surely will I follow thee.
MARSYAS	Follow thyself, not me. Thou hast
An Holy Guardian Angel, bound
to lead thee from thy bitter waste
To the inscrutable profound
That is His covenanted ground.
OLYMPAS	Thou who hast known these master-keys
Of all creation's mysteries,
Tell me, what followed the great gust
Of God that blew his world to dust?
MARSYAS	I, even I the man, became
As a great sword of flashing flame. 
My life, informed with holiness,
Conscious of its own loveliness,
Like a well that overflows
At the limit of the snows,
Sent its crystal stream to gladden
The hearts of me, their lives to madden
With the intoxicating bliss
(Wine mixed with myrrh and ambergris!)
Of this bitter-sweet perfume,
This gorse's blaze of prickly bloom
That is the Wisdom of the Way. 
Then springs the statue from the clay,
And all God's doubted fatherhood
Is seen to be supremely good. 

Live within the sane sweet sun!
Leave the shadow-world alone!
OLYMPAS	There is a crown for every one;
For every one there is a throne!
MARSYAS	That crown is Silence. Sealed and sure!
That throne is Knowledge perfect pure. 
Below that throne adoring stand
Virtues in a blissful band;
Mercy, majesty and power,
Beauty and harmony and strength,
Triumph and splendour, starry shower
Of flames that flake their lily length,
A necklet of pure light, far-flung
Down to the Base, from which is hung
A pearl, the Universe, whose sight
Is one globed jewel of delight. 
Fallen no more! A bowered bride
Blushing to be satisfied!
OLYMPAS	All this, of once the Eye unclose?
MARSYAS	The golden cross, the ruby rose
Are gone, when flaming from afar
The Hawk's eye blinds the Silver Star. 

O brothers of the Star, caressed
By its cool flames from brow to breast,
Is there some rapture yet to excite
This prone and pallid neophyte?
OLYMPAS	O but there is no need of this!
I burn toward the abyss of Bliss. 
I call the Four Powers of the Name;
Earth, wind and cloud, sea, smoke and flame
To witness: by this triune Star
I swear to break the twi-forked bar. 
But how to attain? Flexes and leans
The strongest will that lacks the means.
MARSYAS	There are seven keys to the great gate,
Being eight in one and one in eight. 
First, let the body of thee be still,
Bound by the cerements of will,
Corpse-rigid; thus thou mayst abort
The fidget-babes that tense the thought. 
Next, let the breath-rhythm be low,
Easy, regular, and slow;
So that thy being be in tune
With the great sea's Pacific swoon. 
Third, let thy life be pure and calm
Swayed softly as a windless palm. 
Fourth, let the will-to-live be bound
To the one love of the Profound. 
Fifth, let the thought, divinely free
From sense, observe its entity. 
Watch every thought that springs; enhance
Hour after hour thy vigilance!
Intense and keen, turned inward, miss
No atom of analysis!
Sixth, on one thought securely pinned
Still every whisper of the wind!
So like a flame straight and unstirred
Burn up thy being in one word!
Next, still that ecstasy, prolong
Thy meditation steep and strong,
Slaying even God, should He distract
Thy attention from the chosen act!
Last, all these things in one o'erpowered,
Time that the midnight blossom flowered!
The oneness is. Yet even in this,
My son, thou shalt not do amiss
If thou restrain the expression, shoot
Thy glance to rapture's darkling root,
Discarding name, form, sight, and stress
Even of this high consciousness;
Pierce to the heart! I leave thee here:
Thou art the Master. I revere
Thy radiance that rolls afar,
O Brother of the Silver Star!
OLYMPAS. Ah, but no ease may lap my limbs. 
Giants and sorcerers oppose;
Ogres and dragons are my foes!
Leviathan against me swims,
And lions roar, and Boreas blows!
No Zephyrs woo, no happy hymns
Paean the Pilgrim of the Rose!
MARSYAS	I teach the royal road of light. 
Be thou, devoutly eremite,
Free of thy fate. Choose tenderly
A place for thine Academy. 
Let there be an holy wood
Of embowered solitude
By the still, the rainless river,
Underneath the tangled roots
Of majestic trees that quiver
In the quiet airs; where shoots
Of the kindly grass are green
Moss and ferns asleep between,
Lilies in the water lapped,
Sunbeams in the branches trapped
--Windless and eternal even!
Silenced all the birds of heaven
By the low insistent call
Of the constant waterfall. 
There, to such a setting be
Its carven gem of deity,
A central flawless fire, enthralled
Like Truth within an emerald!
Thou shalt have a birchen bark
On the river in the dark;
And at the midnight thou shalt go
to the mid-stream's smoothest flow,
And strike upon a golden bell
The spirit's call; then say the spell:
"Angel, mine angel, draw thee nigh!"
Making the Sign of Magistry
With wand of lapis lazuli. 
Then, it may be, through the blind dumb
Night thou shalt see thine angel come,
Hear the faint whisper of his wings,
Behold the starry breast begemmed
With the twelve stones of the twelve kings!
His forehead shall be diademed
With the faint light of stars, wherein
The Eye gleams dominant and keen. 
Thereat thou swoonest; and thy love
Shall catch the subtle voice thereof. 
He shall inform his happy lover:
My foolish prating shall be over!
OLYMPAS	O now I burn with holy haste. 
This doctrine hath so sweet a taste
That all the other wine is sour.
MARSYAS	Son, there's a bee for every flower. 
Lie open, a chameleon cup,
And let Him suck thine honey up!
OLYMPAS	There is one doubt. When souls attain
Such an unimagined gain
Shall not others mark them, wise
Beyond mere mortal destinies?
MARSYAS	Such are not the perfect saints. 
While the imagination faints
Before their truth, they veil it close
As amid the utmost snows
The tallest peaks most straitly hide
With clouds their holy heads. Divide
The planes! Be ever as you can
A simple honest gentleman!
Body and manners be at ease,
Not bloat with blazoned sanctities!
Who fights as fights the soldier-saint?
And see the artist-adept paint!
Weak are those souls that fear the stress
Of earth upon their holiness!
They fast, they eat fantastic food,
They prate of beans and brotherhood,
Wear sandals, and long hair, and spats,
And think that makes them Arahats!
How shall man still his spirit-storm?
Rational Dress and Food Reform!
OLYMPAS	I know such saints.
MARSYAS	An easy vice:
So wondrous well they advertise!
O their mean souls are satisfied
With wind of spiritual pride. 
They're all negation. "Do not eat;
What poison to the soul is meat!
Drink not; smoke not; deny the will!
Wine and tobacco make us ill. "
Magic is life; the Will to Live
Is one supreme Affirmative. 
These things that flinch from Life are worth
No more to Heaven than to Earth. 
Affirm the everlasting Yes!
OLYMPAS	Those saints at least score one success:
Perfection of their priggishness!
MARSYAS	Enough. The soul is subtlier fed
With meditation's wine and bread. 
Forget their failings and our own;
Fix all our thoughts on Love alone!

Ah, boy, all crowns and thrones above
Is the sanctity of love. 
In His warm and secret shrine
Is a cup of perfect wine,
Whereof one drop is medicine
Against all ills that hurt the soul. 
A flaming daughter of the Jinn
Brought to me once a wingäd scroll,
Wherein I read the spell that brings
The knowledge of that King of Kings. 
Angel, I invoke thee now!
Bend on me the starry brow!
Spread the eagle wings above
The pavilion of our love! .... 
Rise from your starry sapphire seats!
See, where through the quickening skies
The oriflamme of beauty beats
Heralding loyal legionaries,
Whose flame of golden javelins
Fences those peerless paladins. 
There are the burning lamps of them,
Splendid star-clusters to begem
The trailing torrents of those blue
Bright wings that bear mine angel through!
O Thou art like an Hawk of Gold,
Miraculously manifold,
For all the sky's aflame to be
A mirror magical of Thee!
The stars seem comets, rushing down
To gem thy robes, bedew thy crown. 
Like the moon-plumes of a strange bird
By a great wind sublimely stirred,
Thou drawest the light of all the skies
Into thy wake. The heaven dies
In bubbling froth of light, that foams
About thine ardour. All the domes
Of all the heavens close above thee
As thou art known of me who love thee. 
Excellent kiss, thou fastenest on
This soul of mine, that it is gone,
Gone from all life, and rapt away
Into the infinite starry spray
Of thine own AEon ... Alas for me!
I faint. Thy mystic majesty
Absorbs this spark.
OLYMPAS	All hail! all hail!
White splendour through the viewless veil!
I am drawn with thee to rapture.
MARSYAS	Stay!
I bear a message. Heaven hath sent
The knowledge of a new sweet way
Into the Secret Element.
OLYMPAS	Master, while yet the glory clings
Declare this mystery magical!
MARSYAS	I am yet borne on those blue wings
Into the Essence of the All. 
Now, now I stand on earth again,
Though, blazing through each nerve and vein,
The light yet holds its choral course,
Filling my frame with fiery force
Like God's. Now hear the Apocalypse
New-fledged on these reluctant lips!
OLYMPAS	I tremble like an aspen, quiver
Like light upon a rainy river!
MARSYAS	Do what thou wilt! is the sole word
Of law that my attainment heard. 
Arise, and lay thine hand on God!
Arise, and set a period
Unto Restriction! That is sin:
To hold thine holy spirit in!
O thou that chafest at thy bars,
Invoke Nuit beneath her stars
With a pure heart (Her incense burned
Of gums and woods, in gold inurned),
And let the serpent flame therein
A little, and thy soul shall win
To lie within her bosom. Lo!
Thou wouldst give all--and she cries: No!
Take all, and take me! Gather spice
And virgins and great pearls of price!
Worship me in a single robe,
Crowned richly! Girdle of the globe,
I love thee! Pale and purple, veiled,
Voluptuous, swan silver-sailed,
I love thee. I am drunkness
Of the inmost sense; my soul's caress
Is toward thee! Let my priestess stand
Bare and rejoicing, softly fanned
By smooth-lipped acolytes, upon
Mine iridescent altar-stone,
And in her love-chaunt swooningly
Say evermore: To me! To me!
I am the azure-lidded daughter
Of sunset; the all-girdling water;
The naked brilliance of the sky
In the voluptuous night am I!
With song, with jewel, with perfume,
Wake all my rose's blush and bloom!
Drink to me! Love me! I love thee,
My love, my lord--to me! to me!
OLYMPAS	There is no harshness in the breath
Of this--is life surpassed, and death?
MARSYAS	There is the Snake that gives delight
And Knowledge, stirs the heart aright
With drunkenness. Strange drugs are thine,
Hadit, and draughts of wizard wine!
These do no hurt. Thine hermits dwell
Not in the cold secretive cell,
But under purple canopies
With mighty-breasted mistresses
Magnificent as lionesses--
Tender and terrible caresses!
Fire lives, and light, in eager eyes;
And massed huge hair about them lies. 
They lead their hosts to victory:
In every joy they are kings; then see
That secret serpent coiled to spring
And win the world! O priest and king,
Let there be feasting, foining, fighting,
A revel of lusting, singing, smiting!
Work; be the bed of work! Hold! Hold!
the stars' kiss is as molten gold. 
Harden! Hold thyself up! now die---
Ah! Ah! Exceed! Exceed!
OLYMPAS	And I?
MARSYAS	My stature shall surpass the stars:
He hath said it! Men shall worship me
In hidden woods, on barren scaurs,
Henceforth to all eternity.
OLYMPAS	Hail! I adore thee! Let us feast.
MARSYAS	I am the consecrated Beast. 
I build the Abominable House. 
The Scarlet Woman is my Spouse--
OLYMPAS	What is this word?
MARSYAS	Thou canst not know
Till thou hast passed the Fourth Ordeal.
OLYMPAS	I worship thee. The moon-rays flow
Masterfully rich and real
From thy red mouth, and burst, young suns
Chanting before the Holy Ones
Thine Eight Mysterious Orisons!
MARSYAS	The last spell! The availing word!
The two completed by the third!
The Lord of War, of Vengeance
That slayeth with a single glance!
This light is in me of my Lord. 
His Name is this far-whirling sword. 
I push His order. Keen and swift
My Hawk's eye flames; these arms uplift
The Banner of Silence and of Strength--
Hail! Hail! thou art here, my Lord, at length!
Lo, the Hawk-Headed Lord am I:
My nemyss shrouds the night-blue sky. 
Hail! ye twin warriors that guard
The pillars of the world! Your time
Is nigh at hand. The snake that marred
Heaven with his inexhaustible slime
Is slain; I bear the Wand of Power,
The Wand that waxes and that wanes;
I crush the Universe this hour
In my left hand; and naught remains!
Ho! for the splendour in my name
Hidden and glorious, a flame
Secretly shooting from the sun. 
Aum! Ha!--my destiny is done. 
The Word is spoken and concealed.
OLYMPAS	I am stunned. What wonder was revealed?
MARSYAS	The rite is secret.
OLYMPAS	Profits it?
MARSYAS	Only to wisdom and to wit.
OLYMPAS	The other did no less.
MARSYAS	Then prove
Both by the master-key of Love. 
The lock turns stiffly? Shalt thou shirk
To use the sacred oil of work?
Not from the valley shalt thou test
The eggs that line the eagle's nest!
Climb, with thy life at stake, the ice,
The sheer wall of the precipice!
Master the cornice, gain the breach,
And learn what next the ridge can teach!
Yet--not the ridge itself may speak
The secret of the final peak.
OLYMPAS	All ridges join at last.
MARSYAS	Admitted,
O thou astute and subtle-witted!
Yet one--loose, jaggäd, clad in mist!
Another--firm, smooth, loved and kissed
By the soft sun! Our order hath
This secret of the solar path,
Even as our Lord the Beast hath won
The mystic Number of the Sun.
OLYMPAS	These secrets are too high for me.
MARSYAS	Nay, little brother! Come and see!
Neither by faith nor fear nor awe
Approach the doctrine of the Law!
Truth, Courage, Love, shall win the bout,
And those three others be cast out.
OLYMPAS	Lead me, Master, by the hand
Gently to this gracious land!
Let me drink the doctrine in,
An all-healing medicine!
Let me rise, correct and firm,
Steady striding to the term,
Master of my fate, to rise
To imperial destinies;
With the sun's ensanguine dart
Spear-bright in my blazing heart,
And my being's basil-plant
Bright and hard as adamant!
MARSYAS	Yonder, faintly luminous,
The yellow desert waits for us. 
Lithe and eager, hand in hand,
We travel to the lonely land. 
There, beneath the stars, the smoke
Of our incense shall invoke
The Queen of Space; and subtly She
Shall bend from Her infinity
Like a lambent flame of blue,
Touching us, and piercing through
All the sense-webs that we are
As the aethyr penetrates a star!
Her hands caressing the black earth,
Her sweet lithe body arched for love,
Her feet a Zephyr to the flowers,
She calls my name--she gives the sign
That she is mine, supremely mine,
And clinging to the infinite girth
My soul gets perfect joy thereof
Beyond the abysses and the hours;
So that--I kiss her lovely brows;
She bathes my body in perfume
Of sweat .... O thou my secret spouse,
Continuous One of Heaven! illume
My soul with this arcane delight,
Volumptuous Daughter of the Night!
Eat me up wholly with the glance
Of thy luxurious brilliance!
OLYMPAS	The desert calls.
MARSYAS	Then let us go!
Or seek the sacramental snow,
Where like a high-priest I may stand
With acolytes on every hand,
The lesser peaks--my will withdrawn
To invoke the dayspring from the dawn,
Changing that rosy smoke of light
To a pure crystalline white;
Though the mist of mind, as draws
A dancer round her limbs the gauze,
Clothe Light, and show the virgin Sun
A lemon-pale medallion!
Thence leap we leashless to the goal,
Stainless star-rapture of the soul. 
So the altar-fires fade
As the Godhead is displayed. 
Nay, we stir not. Everywhere
Is our temple right appointed. 
All the earth is faery fair
For us. Am I not anointed?
The Sigil burns upon the brow
At the adjuration--here and now.
OLYMPAS	The air is laden with perfumes.
MARSYAS	Behold! It beams--it burns--it blooms. 
*****
OLYMPAS	Master, how subtly hast thou drawn
The daylight from the Golden Dawn,
Bidden the Cavernous Mount unfold
Its Ruby Rose, its Cross of Gold;
Until I saw, flashed from afar,
The Hawk's eye in the Silver Star!
MARSYAS	Peace to all beings. Peace to thee,
Co-heir of mine eternity!
Peace to the greatest and the least,
To nebula and nenuphar!
Light in abundance be increased
On them that dream that shadows are!
OLYMPAS	Blessing and worship to The Beast,
The prophet of the lovely Star!

THE BOOK OF LIES

                           Aliester Crowley





















































                           THE BOOK OF LIES
                        WHICH IS ALSO FALSELY
                               CALLED

                               BREAKS

                  THE WANDERINGS OR FALSIFICATIONS
                        OF THE ONE THOUGHT OF

                          FRATER PERDURABO
                         (Aleister Crowley)

                       WHICH THOUGHT IS ITSELF
                               UNTRUE

                              A REPRINT
           with an additional commentary to each chapter.

                        "Break, break, break
                 At the foot of thy stones, O Sea!
                   And I would that I could utter
                   The thoughts that arise in me!"
































          (OPPOSITE: Photo of FRATER PERDURABO on his ass.)
                       COMMENTARY (Title Page)

       The number of the book is 333, as implying dis-
     persion, so as to correspond with the title, "Breaks"
     and "Lies".
       However, the "one thought is itself untrue", and
     therefore its falsifications are relatively true.
       This book therefore consists of statements as nearly
     true as is possible to human language.
       The verse from Tennyson is inserted partly because
     of the pun on the word "break"; partly because of the
     reference to the meaning of this title page, as explained
     above; partly because it is intensely amusing for
     Crowley to quote Tennyson.
       There is no joke or subtle meaning in the publisher's
     imprint.







































                              FOREWORD

      THE BOOK OF LIES, first published in London
    in 1913, Aleister Crowley's little master work, has
    long been out of print.  Its re-issue with the author's
    own Commentary gives occasion for a few notes.  We
    have so much material by Crowley himself about this
    book that we can do no better that quote some
    passages which we find scattered about in the un-
    published volumes of his "CONFESSIONS."  He
    writes:
      "...None the less, I could point to some solid
    achievement on the large scale, although it is com-
    posed of more or less disconnected elements.  I refer
    to THE BOOK OF LIES.  In this there are 93 chapters:
    we count as a chapter the two pages filled re-
    respectively with a note of interrogation and a mark of
    exclamation.  The other chapters contain sometimes a
    single word, more frequently from a half-dozen to
    twenty paragraphs.  The subject of each chapter is
    determined more or less definitely by the Qabalistic
    import of its number.  Thus Chapter 25 gives a revised
    ritual of the Pentagram; 72 is a rondel with the refrain
    ~Shemhamphorash', the Divine name of 72 letters;
    77 Laylah, whose name adds to that number; and
    80, the number of the letter Pe, referred to Mars, a
    panegyric upon War.  Sometimes the text is serious
    and straightforward, sometimes its obscure oracles
    demand deep knowledge of the Qabalah for inter-
    pretation, others contain obscure allusions, play
    upon words, secrets expressed in cryptogram, double
    or triple meanings which must be combined in order






















                                 [5]
    to appreciate the full flavour; others again are
    subtly ironical or cynical.  At first sight the book is a
    jumble of nonsense intended to insult the reader.  It
    requires infinite study, sympathy, intuition and
    initiation.  Given these I do not hesitate to claim that
    in none other of my writings have I given so pro-
    found and comprehensive an exposition of my
    philosophy on every plane...."
      "...My association with Free Masonry was there-
    fore destined to be more fertile that almost any other
    study, and that in a way despite itself.  A word should
    be pertinent with regard to the question of secrecy.
    It has become difficult for me to take this matter
    very seriously.  Knowing what the secret actually is,
    I cannot attach much importance to artificial
    mysteries.  Again, though the secret itself is of such
    tremendous import, and though it is so simple that
    I could disclose it...in a short paragraph, I might
    do so without doing much harm.  For it cannot be used
    indiscriminately...I have found in practice that the
    secret of the O.T.O. cannot be used unworthily...."
      "It is interesting in this connection to recall how it
    came into my possession.  It had occurred to me to
    write a book `THE BOOK OF LIES, WHICH IS
    ALSO FALSELY CALLED BREAKS, THE
    WANDERINGS OR FALSIFICATION OF THE
    THOUGHT OF FRATER PERDURABO WHICH
    THOUGHT IS ITSELF UNTRUE. . . .'  One of
    these chapters bothered me.  I could not write it.  I
    invoked Dionysus with particular fervour, but still
    without success.  I went off in desperation to `change
    my luck', by doing something entirely contrary to
    my inclinations.  In the midst of my disgust, the
    spirit came over me, and I scribbled the chapter
    down by the light of a farthing dip.. When I read it
    over, I was as discontented as before, but I stuck it
    into the book in a sort of anger at myself as a
    deliberate act of spite towards my readers.
















                                 [6]
      "Shortly after publication, the O.H.O. (Outer
    Head of the O.T.O.) came to me.  (At that time I did
    not realise that there was anything in the O.T.O.
    beyond a convenient compendium of the more
    important truths of Free Masonry.)  He said that since
    I was acquainted with the supreme secret of the
    Order, I must be allowed the IX {degree} and obligated in
    regard to it.  I protested that I knew no such secret.
    He said `But you have printed it in the plainest
    language'.  I said that I could not have done so
    because I did not know it.  He went to the book-
    shelves; taking out a copy of THE BOOK OF LIES, he
    pointed to a passage in the despised chapter.  It
    instantly flashed upon me.  The entire symbolism not
    only of Free Masonry but of many other traditions
    blazed upon my spiritual vision.  From that moment
    the O.T.O. assumed its proper importance in my
    mind.  I understood that I held in my hands the key
    to the future progress of humanity...."
      The Commentary was written by Crowley prob-
    ably around 1921.  The student will find it very
    helpful for the light it throws on many of its passages.

                                       The Editors






























                                 [7]
    ************************************************************
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                             ?                            *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    ************************************************************
    ************************************************************
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                             !                            *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    *                                                          *
    ************************************************************
    {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Eta Omicron-Upsilon-Kappa
      Epsilon-Sigma-Tau-Iota Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta
                             Omicron!} (1)

                   The Ante Primal Triad which is
                               NOT-GOD
                             Nothing is.
                             Nothing Becomes.
                             Nothing is not.

                    The First Triad which is GOD
                                I AM.
                          I utter The Word.
                          I hear The Word.

                              The Abyss
                   The Word is broken up.
                   There is Knowledge.
                   Knowledge is Relation.
                   These fragments are Creation.
                   The broken manifests Light. (2)

                    The Second Triad which is GOD
          GOD the Father and Mother is concealed in Genera-
              tion.
          GOD is concealed in the whirling energy of Nature.
          GOD is manifest in gathering: harmony: considera-
              tion: the Mirror of the Sun and of the Heart.

                           The Third Triad
                    Bearing: preparing.
                    Wavering: flowing: flashing.
                    Stability: begetting.

                         The Tenth Emanation
                    The world.


















                                 [10]
           COMMENTARY (The Chapter that is not a Chapter)
      This chapter, numbered 0, corresponds to the Negative,
    which is before Kether in the Qabalistic system.
      The notes of interrogation and exclamation on the previous
    pages are the other two veils.
      The meaning of these symbols is fully explained in "The
    Soldier and the Hunchback".
      This chapter begins by the letter O, followed by a mark of
    exclamation; its reference to the theogony of "Liber Legis" is
    explained in the note, but it also refers to KTEIS PHALLOS
    and SPERMA, and is the exclamation of wonder or ecstasy,
    which is the ultimate nature of things.

                                 NOTE
      (1) Silence. Nuit, O; Hadit; Ra-Hoor-Khuit, I.

                 COMMENTARY (The Ante Primal Triad)
      This is the negative Trinity; its three statements are, in an
    ultimate sense, identical. They harmonise Being, Becoming,
    Not-Being, the three possible modes of conceiving the universe.
      The statement, Nothing is Not , technically equivalent to
    Something Is, is fully explained in the essay called Berashith.
      The rest of the chapter follows the Sephirotic system of the
    Qabalah, and constitutes a sort of quintessential comment upon
    that system.
      Those familiar with that system will recognise Kether,
    Chokmah, Binah, in the First Triad; Daath, in the Abyss; Chesed,
    Geburah, Tiphareth, in the Second Triad; Netzach, Hod and
    Yesod in the Third Triad, and Malkuth in the Tenth Emanation.
      It will be noticed that this cosmogony is very complete; the
    manifestation even of God does not appear until Tiphareth; and
    the universe itself not until Malkuth.
      The chapter many therefore be considered as the most complete
    treatise on existence ever written.

                                 NOTE
      (2) The Unbroken, absorbing all, is called Darkness.















                                 [11]


                                  1

                {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda Alpha}

                       THE SABBATH OF THE GOAT

               O! the heart of N.O.X. the Night of Pan.
               {Pi-Alpha-Nu}: Duality: Energy: Death.
               Death: Begetting: the supporters of O!
               To beget is to die; to die is to beget.
               Cast the Seed into the Field of Night.
               Life and Death are two names of A.
               Kill thyself.
               Neither of these alone is enough.






































                                 [12]


                         COMMENTARY ({Alpha})

      The shape of the figure I suggests the Phallus; this
    chapter is therefore called the Sabbath of the Goat, the
    Witches' Sabbath, in which the Phallus is adored.
      The chapter begins with a repetition of O! referred
    to in the previous chapter.  It is explained that this triad
    lives in Night, the Night of Pan, which is mystically
    called N.O.X., and this O is identified with the O in
    this word.  N is the Tarot symbol, Death; and the X
    or Cross is the sign of the Phallus.  For a fuller com-
    mentary on Nox, see Liber VII, Chapter I.
      Nox adds to 210, which symbolises the reduction of
    duality to unity, and thence to negativity, and is thus
    a hieroglyph of the Great Work.
      The word Pan is then explained, {Pi}, the letter of
    Mars, is a hieroglyph of two pillars, and therefore
    suggest duality; A, by its shape, is the pentagram,
    energy, and N, by its Tarot attribution, is death.
      Nox is then further explained, and it is shown that
    the ultimate Trinity, O!, is supported, or fed, by the
    process of death and begetting, which are the laws of
    the universe.
      The identity of these two is then explained.
      The Student is then charged to understand the
    spiritual importance of this physical procession in
    line 5.
      It is then asserted that the ultimate letter A has two
    names, or phases, Life and Death.
      Line 7 balances line 5.  It will be notice that the
    phraseology of these two lines is so conceived that the
    one contains the other more than itself.
      Line 8 emphasises the importance of performing
    both.




















                                 [13]
                                  2


                  {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Eta Beta}

                         THE CRY OF THE HAWK

           Hoor hath a secret fourfold name: it is Do What
            Thou Wilt.(3)
           Four Words: Naught-One-Many-All.
                       Thou-Child!
                       Thy Name is holy.
                       Thy Kingdom is come.
                       Thy Will is done.
                       Here is the Bread.
                       Here is the Blood.
             Bring us through Temptation!
             Deliver us from Good and Evil!
           That Mine as Thine be the Crown of the Kingdom,
             even now.
                             ABRAHADABRA.
           These ten words are four, the Name of the One.
































                                 [14]
                         COMMENTARY ({Beta})


      The "Hawk" referred to is Horus.
      The chapter begins with a comment on Liber Legis
    III, 49.
      Those four words, Do What Thou Wilt, are also
    identified with the four possible modes of conceiving the
    universe; Horus unites these.
      Follows a version of the "Lord's Prayer", suitable
    to Horus.  Compare this with the version in Chapter 44.
    There are ten sections in this prayer, and, as the prayer
    is attributed to Horus, they are called four, as above
    explained; but it is only the name of Horus which is
    fourfold; He himself is One.
      This may be compared with the Qabalistic doctrine
    of the Ten Sephiroth as an expression of Tetra-
    grammaton (1 plus 2 plus 3 plus 4 = 10).
      It is now seen that this Hawk is not Solar, but
    Mercurial; hence the words, the Cry of the Hawk, the
    essential part of Mercury being his Voice; and the
    number of the chapter, B, which is Beth the letter of
    Mercury, the Magus of the Tarot, who has four
    weapons, and it must be remembered that this card is
    numbered 1, again connecting all these symbols with
    the Phallus.
      The essential weapon of Mercury is the Caduceus.

                                 NOTE
      (3) Fourteen letters. Quid Voles Illud Fac. Q.V.I.F.
    196=14^2.























                                 [15]
                                  3

              {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Gamma}

                              THE OYSTER

    The Brothers of A.'.A.'. are one with the Mother of
      the Child.(4)
    The Many is as adorable to the One as the One is to
      the Many.  This is the Love of These; creation-
      parturition is the Bliss of the One; coition-
      dissolution is the Bliss of the Many.
    The All, thus interwoven of These, is Bliss.
    Naught is beyond Bliss.
    The Man delights in uniting with the Woman; the
      Woman in parting from the Child.
    The Brothers of A.'.A.'. are Women: the Aspirants
      to A.'.A.'. are Men.




































                                 [16]
                         COMMENTARY ({Gamma})

      Gimel is the High Priestess of the Tarot.  This
    chapter gives the initiated feminine point of view; it is
    therefore called the Oyster, a symbol of the Yoni.  In
    Equinox X, The Temple of Solomon the King, it is
    explained how Masters of the Temple, or Brothers of
    A.'.A.'. have changed the formula of their progress.
    These two formulae, Solve et Coagula, are now ex-
    plained, and the universe is exhibited as the interplay
    between these two.  This also explains the statement in
    Liber Legis I, 28-30.

                                 NOTE
      (4) They cause all men to worship it.







































                                 [17]
                                  4

              {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Delta}

                               PEACHES

    Soft and hollow, how thou dost overcome the hard
      and full!
    It dies, it gives itself; to Thee is the fruit!
    Be thou the Bride; thou shalt be the Mother here-
      after.
    To all impressions thus.  Let them not overcome thee;
      yet let them breed within thee.  The least of the
      impressions, come to its perfection, is Pan.
    Receive a thousand lovers; thou shalt bear but One
      Child.
    This child shall be the heir of Fate the Father.





































                                 [18]
                         COMMENTARY ({Delta})

      Daleth is the Empress of the Tarot, the letter of
    Venus, and the title, Peaches, again refers to the Yoni.
      The chapter is a counsel to accept all impressions;
    it is the formula of the Scarlet woman; but no impression
    must be allowed to dominate you, only to fructify you;
    just as the artist, seeing an object, does not worship it,
    but breeds a masterpiece from it.  This process is
    exhibited as one aspect of the Great Work.  The last
    two paragraphs may have some reference to the 13th
    Aethyr (see The Vision and The Voice).










































                                 [19]
                                  5

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Epsilon}

                        THE BATTLE OF THE ANTS

          That is not which is.
          The only Word is Silence.
          The only Meaning of that Word is not.
          Thoughts are false.
          Fatherhood is unity disguised as duality.
          Peace implies war.
          Power implies war.
          Harmony implies war.
          Victory implies war.
          Glory implies war.
          Foundation implies war.
          Alas!  for the Kingdom wherein all these are at war.




































                                 [20]
                        COMMENTARY ({Epsilon})

      He is the letter of Aries, a Martial sign; while the
    title suggests war.  The ants are chosen as small busy
    objects.
      Yet He, being a holy letter, raises the beginning of the
    chapter to a contemplation of the Pentagram, con-
    sidered as a glyph of the ultimate.
      In line 1, Being is identified with Not-Being.
      In line 2, Speech with Silence.
      In line 3, the Logos is declared as the Negative.
      Line 4 is another phrasing of the familiar Hindu
    statement, that that which can be thought is not true.
      In line 5, we come to an important statement, an
    adumbration of the most daring thesis in this book-
    Father and Son are not really two, but one; their unity
    being the Holy Ghost, the semen; the human form is a
    non-essential accretion of this quintessence.
      So far the chapter has followed the Sephiroth from
    Kether to Chesed, and Chesed is united to the Supernal
    Triad by virtue of its Phallic nature; for not only is
    Amoun a Phallic God, and Jupiter the Father of All,
    but 4 is Daleth, Venus, and Chesed refers to water,
    from which Venus sprang, and which is the symbol of
    the Mother in the Tetragrammaton.  See Chapter 0,
    "God the Father and Mother is concealed in genera-
    tion".
      But Chesed, in the lower sense, is conjoined to
    Microprosopus.  It is the true link between the greater
    and lesser countenances, whereas Daath is the false.
    Compare the doctrine of the higher and lower Manas in
    Theosophy.
      The rest of the chapter therefor points out the duality,
    and therefore the imperfection, of all the lower Sephiroth
    in their essence.



















                                 [21]
                                  6


             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Digamma}

                                CAVIAR

    The Word was uttered: the One exploded into one
      thousand million worlds.
    Each world contained a thousand million spheres.
    Each sphere contained a thousand million planes.
    Each plane contained a thousand million stars.
    Each star contained a many thousand million things.
    Of these the reasoner took six, and, preening, said:
      This is the One and the All.
    These six the Adept harmonised, and said: This is the
      Heart of the One and the All.
    These six were destroyed by the Master of the
      Temple; and he spake not.
    The Ash thereof was burnt up by the Magus into
      The Word.
    Of all this did the Ipsissimus know Nothing.
































                                 [22]
                        COMMENTARY ({Digamma})

      This chapter is presumably called Caviar because
    that substance is composed of many spheres.
      The account given of Creation is the same as that
    familiar to students of the Christian tradition, the
    Logos transforming the unity into the many.
      We then see what different classes of people do with
    the many.
      The Rationalist takes the six Sephiroth of Micro-
    prosopus in a crude state, and declares them to be the
    universe.  This folly is due to the pride of reason.
      The Adept concentrates the Microcosm in Tiphareth,
    recognising an Unity, even in the microcosm, but, qua
    Adept, he can go no further.
      The Master of the Temple destroys all these illusions,
    but remains silent.  See the description of his functions
    in the Equinox, Liber 418 and elsewhere.
      In the next grade, the Word is re-formulated, for the
    Magus in Chokmah, the Dyad, the Logos.
      The Ipsissimus, in the highest grade of the A.'.A.'.,
    is totally unconscious of this process, or, it might be
    better to say, he recognises it as Nothing, in that positive
    sense of the word, which is only intelligible in
    Samasamadhi.





























                                 [28]
                                  7

              {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Zeta}

                            THE DINOSAURS

    None are They whose number is Six:(5) else were they
      six indeed.
    Seven(6) are these Six that live not in the City of the
      Pyramids, under the Night of Pan.
    There was Lao-tzu.
    There was Siddartha.
    There was Krishna.
    There was Tahuti.
    There was Mosheh.
    There was Dionysus.(7)
    There was Mahmud.
    But the Seventh men called PERDURABO; for
      enduring unto The End, at The End was Naught
      to endure. (8)
    Amen.

































                                 [29]
                         COMMENTARY ({Zeta})


      This chapter gives a list of those special messengers
    of the Infinite who initiate periods.  they are called
    Dinosaurs because of their seeming to be terrible
    devouring creatures.  They are Masters of the Temple,
    for their number is 6 (1 plus 2 plus 3), the mystic
    number of Binah; but they are called "None", because
    they have attained.  If it were not so, they would be
    called "six" in its bad sense of mere intellect.
      They are called Seven, although they are Eight,
    because Lao-tzu counts as nought, owing to the nature
    of his doctrine.  The reference to their "living not" is
    to be found in Liber 418.
      The word "Perdurabo" means "I will endure unto
    the end".  The allusion is explained in the note.
      Siddartha, or Gotama, was the name of the last
    Budda.
      Krishna was the principal incarnation of the Indian
    Vishnu, the preserver, the principal expounder of
    Vedantism.
      Tahuti, or Thoth, the Egyptian God of Wisdom.
      Mosheh, Moses, the founder of the Hebrew system.
      Dionysus, probably an ecstatic from the East.
      Mahmud, Mohammed.
      All these were men; their Godhead is the result of
    mythopoeia.

                                NOTES
      (5) Masters of the Temple, whose grade has the
    mystic number 6 (= 1 + 2 + 3).
      (6) These are not eight, as apparent; for Lao-tzu
    counts as 0.
      (7) The legend of "Christ" is only a corruption and
    perversion of other legends.  Especially of Dionysus:
    compare the account of Christ before Herod/Pilate in
    the gospels, and of Dionysus before Pentheus in
    "The Baccae".
      (8) O, the last letter of Perdurabo, is Naught.














                                 [25]
                                  8


                 {Kappa-epsilon-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Eta}

                          STEEPED HORSEHAIR

    Mind is a disease of semen.
    All that a man is or may be is hidden therein.
    Bodily functions are parts of the machine; silent,
      unless in dis-ease.
    But mind, never at ease, creaketh "I".
    This I persisteth not, posteth not through genera-
      tions, changeth momently, finally is dead.
    Therefore is man only himself when lost to himself
      in The Charioting.






































                                 [26]
                          COMMENTARY ({Eta})

      Cheth is the Chariot in the Tarot.  The Charioteer is
    the bearer of the Holy Grail.  All this should be studied
    in Liber 418, the 12th Aethyr.
      The chapter is called "Steeped Horsehair" because
    of the mediaeval tradition that by steeping horsehair
    a snake is produced, and the snake is the hieroplyphic
    representation of semen, particularly in Gnostic and
    Egyptian emblems.
      The meaning of the chapter is quite clear; the whole
    race-consciousness, that which is omnipotent, omnis-
    cient, omnipresent, is hidden therein.
      Therefore, except in the case of an Adept, man only
    rises to a glimmer of the universal consciousness, while,
    in the orgasm, the mind is blotted out.






































                                 [27]
                                  9

                 {Kappa-epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Eta Theta}

                              THE BRANKS

    Being is the Noun; Form is the adjective.
    Matter is the Noun; Motion is the Verb.
    Wherefore hath Being clothed itself with Form?
    Wherefore hath Matter manifested itself in Motion?
    Answer not, O silent one!  For THERE is no "where-
      fore", no "because".
    The name of THAT is not known; the Pronoun
      interprets, that is , misinterprets, It.
    Time and Space are Adverbs.
    Duality begat the Conjunction.
    The Conditioned is Father of the Preposition.
    The Article also marketh Division; but the Inter-
      jeciton is the sound that endeth in the Silence.
    Destroy therefore the Eight Parts of Speech; the
      Ninth is nigh unto Truth.
    This also must be destroyed before thou enterest
      into The Silence.
    Aum.






























                                 [28]
                         COMMENTARY ({Theta})

      Teth is the Tarot trump, Strength, in which a woman
    is represented closing the mouth of a lion.
      This chapter is called "The Branks", an even more
    powerful symbol, for it is the Scottish, and only known,
    apparatus for closing the mouth of a woman.
      The chapter is formally an attack upon the parts of
    speech, the interjection, the meaningless utterance of
    ecstasy, being the only thing worth saying; yet even this
    is to be regarded as a lapse.
      "Aum" represents the entering into the silence, as
    will observed upon pronouncing it.









































                                 [29]
                                  10

              {Kappa-epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota}

                             WINDLESTRAWS

    The Abyss of Hallucinations has Law and Reason;
      but in Truth there is no bond between the Toys of
      the Gods.
    This Reason and Law is the Bond of the Great Lie.
    Truth! Truth! Truth! crieth the Lord of the Abyss
      of Hallucinations.
    There is no silence in that Abyss: for all that men
      call Silence is Its Speech.
    This Abyss is also called "Hell", and "The Many".
      Its name is "Consciousness", and "The Universe",
      among men.
    But THAT which neither is silent, nor speaks, re-
      joices therein.



































                                 [30]
                         COMMENTARY ({Iota})


      There is no apparent connection between the number
    of this chapter and its subject.
      It does, however, refer to the key of the Tarot called
    The Hermit, which represents him as cloaked.
      Jod is the concealed Phallus as opposed to Tau, the
    extended Phallus.  This chapter should be studied in
    the light of what is said in "Aha!" and in the Temple
    of Solomon the King about the reason.
      The universe is insane, the law of cause and effect
    is an illusion, or so it appears in the Abyss, which is
    thus identified with consciousness, the many, and both;
    but within this is a secret unity which rejoices; this
    unit being far beyond any conception.






































                                 [31]
                                  11


           {Kappa-epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Alpha}

                            THE GLOW-WORM

    Concerning the Holy Three-in-Naught.
    Nuit, Hadit, Ra-Hoor-Khuit, are only to be under-
      stood by the Master of the Temple.
    They are above The Abyss, and contain all con-
      tradiction in themselves.
    Below them is a seeming duality of Chaos and
      Babalon; these are called Father and Mother, but
      it is not so.  They are called Brother and Sister,
      but it is not so.  They are called Husband and
      Wife, but it is not so.
    The reflection of All is Pan: the Night of Pan is the
      Annihilation of the All.
    Cast down through The Abyss is the Light, the Rosy
      Cross, the rapture of Union that destroys, that is
      The Way.  The Rosy Cross is the Ambassador of Pan.
    How infinite is the distance form This to That! Yet
      All is Here and Now.  Nor is there any there or Then;
      for all that is, what is it but a manifestation, that is,
      a part, that is, a falsehood, of THAT which is not?
    Yet THAT which is not neither is nor is not That
      which is!
    Identity is perfect; therefore the w of Identity is
      but a lie.  For there is no subject, and there is no
      predicate; nor is there the contradictory of either
      of these things.
    Holy, Holy, Holy are these Truths that I utter,
      knowing them to be but falsehoods, broken mirrors,
      troubled waters; hide me, O our Lady, in Thy
      Womb! for I may not endure the rapture.
    In this utterance of falsehood upon falsehood, whose
      contradictories are also false, it seems as if That
      which I uttered not were true.
    Blessed, unutterably blessed, is this last of the
      illusions; let me play the man, and thrust it from
      me!  Amen.












                                 [32]
                      COMMENTARY ({Iota Alpha})

      "The Glow-Worm" may perhaps be translated as
    "a little light in the darkness", though there may be a
    subtle reference to the nature of that light.
      Eleven is the great number of Magick, and this
    chapter indicates a supreme magical method; but it is
    really called eleven, because of Liber Legis, I, 60.
      The first part of the chapter describes the universe
    in its highest sense, down to Tiphareth; it is the new
    and perfect cosmogony of Liber Legis.
      Chaos and Babalon are Chokmah and Binah, but
    they are really one; the essential unity of the supernal
    Triad is here insisted upon.
      Pan is a generic name, including this whole system
    of its manifested side.  Those which are above the Abyss
    are therefore said to live in the Night of Pan; they are
    only reached by the annihilation of the All.
      Thus, the Master of the Temple lives in the Night of
    Pan.
      Now, below the Abyss, the manifested part of the
    Master of the temple, also reaches Samadhi, as the
    way of Annihilation.
      Paragraph 7 begins by a reflection produced by the
    preceding exposition.  This reflection is immediately
    contradicted, the author being a Master of the Temple.
    He thereupon enters into his Samadhi, and he piles
    contradiction upon contradiction, and thus a higher
    degree of rapture, with ever sentence, until his armoury
    is exhausted, and, with the word Amen, he enters the
    supreme state.























                                 [33]
                                  12


            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota Beta}

                           THE DRAGON-FLIES

    IO is the cry of the lower as OI of the higher.
    In figures they are 1001;(9) in letters they are Joy.(10)
    For when all is equilibrated, when all is beheld from
      without all, there is joy, joy, joy that is but one
      facet of a diamond, every other facet whereof is
      more joyful than joy itself.









































                                 [34]
                       COMMENTARY ({Iota Beta})

      The Dragon-Flies were chosen as symbols of joy,
    because of the author's observation as a naturalist.
      Paragraph 1 mere repeats Chapter 4 in quintessence;
    1001, being 11{Sigma} (1-13), is a symbol of the complete
    unity manifested as the many, for {Sigma} (1-13) gives the
    whole course of numbers from the simple unity of 1
    to the complex unity of 13, impregnated by the magical
    11.
      I may add a further comment on the number 91.
    13 (1 plus 3) is a higher form of 4.  4 is Amoun, the
    God of generation, and 13 is 1, the Phallic unity.
    Daleth is the Yoni.  And 91 is AMN (Amen), a form
    of the Phallus made complete through the intervention
    of the Yoni.  This again connects with the IO and OI
    of paragraph 1, and of course IO is the rapture-cry of
    the Greeks.
      The whole chapter is, again, a comment on Liber
    legis, 1, 28-30.

                                NOTES
      (9) 1001 = 11{Sigma}.  The Petals of the Sahas-
    raracakkra.
      (10) JOY = 101, the Egg of Spirit in equilibrium
    between the Pillars of the Temple.




























                                 [35]
                                  13

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda Iota-Gamma}

                             PILGRIM-TALK

    O thou that settest out upon The Path, false is the
      Phantom that thou seekest.  When thou hast it
      thou shalt know all bitterness, thy teeth fixed in
      the Sodom-Apple.
    Thus hast thou been lured along That Path, whose
      terror else had driven thee far away.
    O thou that stridest upon the middle of The Path, no
      phantoms mock thee.  For the stride's sake thou
      stridest.
    Thus art thou lured along That Path, whose fascina-
      tion else had driven thee far away.
    O thou that drawest toward the End of The Path,
      effort is no more.  Faster and faster dos thou fall;
      thy weariness is changed into Ineffable Rest.
    For there is not Thou upon That Path: thou hast
      become The Way.
































                                 [36]
                      COMMENTARY ({Iota Gamma})

      This chapter is perfectly clear to anyone who has
    studied the career of an Adept.
      The Sodom-Apple is an uneatable fruit found in the
    desert.
















































                                 [37]
                                  14

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Delta}

                            ONION-PEELINGS

    The Universe is the Practical Joke of the General
      at the Expense of the Particular, quoth FRATER
      PERDURABO, and laughed.
    But those disciples nearest to him wept, seeing the
      Universal Sorrow.
    Those next to them laughed, seeing the Universal
      Joke.
    Below these certain disciples wept.
    Then certain laughed.
    Others next wept.
    Others next laughed.
    Next others wept.
    Next others laughed.
    Last came those that wept because they could not
      see the Joke, and those that laughed lest they
      should be thought not to see the Joke, and thought
      it safe to act like FRATER PERDURABO.
    But though FRATER PERDURABO laughed
      openly, He also at the same time wept secretly;
      and in Himself He neither laughed nor wept.
    Nor did He mean what He said.



























                                 [38]
                       COMMENTARY ({Iota-Delta})

      The title, "Onion-Peelings", refers to the well-known
    incident in "Peer Gynt".
      The chapter resembles strongly Dupin's account of
    how he was able to win at the game of guessing odd or
    even.  (See Poe's tale of "The Purloined Letter".)
    But this is a more serious piece of psychology.  In one's
    advance towards a comprehension of the universe, one
    changes radically one's point of view; nearly always it
    amounts to a reversal.
      this is the cause of most religious controversies.
    Paragraph 1, however, is Frater Perdurabo's formula-
    tion of his perception of the Universal Joke, also
    described in Chapter 34.  All individual existence is
    tragic.  Perception of this fact is the essence of comedy.
    "Household Gods" is an attempt to write pure comedy.
    "The Bacchae" of Euripides is another.
      At the end of the chapter it is, however, seen that to
    the Master of the Temple the opposite perception occurs
    simultaneously, and that he himself is beyond both of
    these.
      And in the last paragraph it is shown that he realises
    the truth as beyond any statement of it.






























                                 [39]
                                  15

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Epsilon}


                            THE GUN-BARREL

    Mighty and erect is this Will of mine, this Pyramid
      of fire whose summit is lost in Heaven.  Upon it
      have I burned the corpse of my desires.
    Mighty and erect is this {Phi-alpha-lambda-lambda-omicron-sigma}
                                       of my Will.  The
      seed thereof is That which I have borne within me
      from Eternity; and it is lost within the Body of
      Our Lady of the Stars.
    I am not I; I am but an hollow tube to bring down
      Fire from Heaven.
    Mighty and marvellous is this Weakness, this
      Heaven which draweth me into Her Womb, this
      Dome which hideth, which absorbeth, Me.
    This is The Night wherein I am lost, the Love
      through which I am no longer I.
































                                 [40]
                     COMMENTARY ({Iota-Epsilon})

      The card 15 in the Tarot is "The Devil", the
    mediaeval blind for Pan.
      The title of the chapter refers to the Phallus, which
    is here identified with the will.  The Greek word
                                {Pi-upsilon-rho-alpha-mu-iota-sigma}
    has the same number as {Phi-alpha-lambda-lambda-omicron-sigma}.
      This chapter is quite clear, but one my remark in
    the last paragraph a reference to the nature of Samadhi.
      As man loses his personality in physical love, so
    does the magician annihilate his divine personality in
    that which is beyond.
      The formula of Samadhi is the same, from the
    lowest to the highest.  The Rosy-Cross is the Universal
    Key.  But, as one proceeds, the Cross becomes greater,
    until it is the Ace, the Rose, until it is the Word.





































                                 [41]
                                  16

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Sigma}

                           THE STAG-BEETLE

    Death implies change and individuality if thou be
      THAT which hath no person, which is beyond the
      changing, even beyond changelessness, what hast
      thou to do with death?
    The bird of individuality is ecstasy; so also is its
      death.
    In love the individuality is slain; who loves not love?
    Love death therefore, and long eagerly for it.
    Die Daily.







































                                 [42]
                      COMMENTARY ({Iota-Sigma})

      This seems a comment on the previous chapter; the
    Stag-Beetle is a reference the Kheph-ra, the Egyptian
    God of Midnight, who bears the Sun through the
    Underworld; but it is called the Stag-Beetle to emphasise
    his horns.  Horns are the universal hieroglyph of energy,
    particularly of Phallic energy.
      The 16th key of the Tarot is "The Blasted Tower".
    In this chapter death is regarded as a form of marriage.
    Modern Greek peasants, in many cases, cling to Pagan
    belief, and suppose that in death they are united to the
    Deity which they have cultivated during life.  This is "a
    consummation devoutly to be wished" (Shakespeare).
      In the last paragraph the Master urges his pupils to
    practise Samadhi every day.






































                                 [43]
                                  17


            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Zeta}

                             THE SWAN(11)

    There is a Swan whose name is Ecstasy: it wingeth
      from the Deserts of the North;it wingeth through
      the blue; it wingeth over the fields of rice; at its
      coming they push forth the green.
    In all the Universe this Swan alone is motionless; it
      seems to move, as the Sun seems to move; such
      is the weakness of our sight.
    O fool! criest thou?
    Amen. Motion is relative: there is Nothing that is
      still.
    Against this Swan I shot an arrow; the white breast
      poured forth blood.  Men smote me; then, per-
      ceiving that I was but a Pure Fool, they let me
      pass.
    Thus and not otherwise I came to the Temple of the
      Graal.































                                 [44]
                       COMMENTARY ({Iota-Zeta})


      This Swan is Aum.  The chapter is inspired by
    Frater P.'s memory of the wild swans he shot in the
    Tali-Fu.
      In paragraphs 3 and 4 it is, however, recognised that
    even Aum is impermanent.  There is no meaning in the
    word, stillness, so long as motion exists.
      In a boundless universe, one can always take any
    one point, however mobile, and postulate it a a point
    at rest, calculating the motions of all other points
    relatively to it.
      The penultimate paragraph shows the relations of
    the Adept to mankind.  Their hate and contempt are
    necessary steps to his acquisition of sovereignty over
    them.
      The story of the Gospel, and that of Parsifal, will
    occur to the mind.

                                 NOTE
      (11) This chapter must be read in connection with
    Wagner's "Parsifal".































                                 [45]
                                  18


            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Eta}

                               DEWDROPS

    Verily, love is death, and death is life to come.
    Man returneth not again; the stream floweth not
      uphill; the old life is no more; there is a new life
      that is not his.
    Yet that life is of his very essence; it is more He
      than all that he calls He.
    In the silence of a dewdrop is every tendency of his
      soul, and of his mind, and of his body; it is the
      Quintessence and the Elixir of his being.  Therein
      are the forces that made him and his father and his
      father's father before him.
    This is the Dew of Immortality.
    Let this go free, even as It will; thou art not its
      master, but the vehicle of It.

































                                 [46]
                       COMMENTARY ({Iota-Eta})

      The 18th key of the Tarot refers to the Moon, which
    was supposed to shed dew.  The appropriateness of the
    chapter title is obvious.
      The chapter must be read in connection with
    Chapters 1 and 16.
      I the penultimate paragraph, Vindu is identified
    with Amrita, and in the last paragraph the disciple is
    charged to let it have its own way.  It has a will of its
    own, which is more in accordance with the Cosmic Will,
    than that of the man who is its guardian and servant.










































                                 [47]
                                  19


           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Iota-Theta}

                       THE LEOPARD AND THE DEER

    The spots of the leopard are the sunlight in the
      glade; pursue thou the deer stealthily at thy
      pleasure.
    The dappling of the deer is the sunlight in the glade;
      concealed from the leopard do thou feed at thy
      pleasure.
    Resemble all that surroundeth thee; yet be Thyself
      -and take thy pleasure among the living.
    This is that which is written-Lurk!-in The Book
      of The Law.





































                                 [48]
                      COMMENTARY ({Iota-Theta})


      19 is the last Trump, "The Sun', which is the
    representative of god in the Macrocosm, as the Phallus
    is in the Microcosm.
      There is a certain universality and adaptability
    among its secret power.  The chapter is taken from
    Rudyard Kiplin's "Just So Stories".
      The Master urges his disciples to a certain holy
    stealth, a concealment of the real purpose of their lives;
    in this way making the best of both worlds.  This counsels
    a course of action hardly distinguishable from hypocrisy;
    but the distinction is obvious to any clear thinker,
    though not altogether so the Frater P.







































                                 [49]
                                  20

              {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa}

                                SAMSON

    The Universe is in equilibrium; therefore He that is
      without it, though his force be but a feather, can
      overturn the Universe.
    Be not caught within that web, O child of Freedom!
      Be not entangled in the universal lie, O child of
      Truth!










































                                 [50]
                         COMMENTARY ({Kappa})

      Samson, the Hebrew Hercules, is said in the legend
    to have pulled down the walls of a music-hall where he
    was engaged, "to make sport for the Philistines",
    destroying them and himself.  Milton founds a poem on
    this fable.
      The first paragraph is a corollary of Newton's First
    Law of Motion.  The key to infinite power is to reach
    the Bornless Beyond.












































                                 [51]
                                  21

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Alpha}

                          THE BLIND WEBSTER

    It is not necessary to understand; it is enough to
      adore.
    The god may be of clay: adore him; he becomes
      GOD.
    We ignore what created us; we adore what we create.
      Let us create nothing but GOD!
    That which causes us to create is our true father and
      mother; we create in our own image, which is theirs.
    Let us create therefore without fear; for we can
      create nothing that is not GOD.






































                                 [52]
                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Alpha})


      The 21st key of the Tarot is called "The Universe",
    and refers to the letter Tau, the Phallus in manifesta-
    tion; hence the title, "The Blind Webster".
      The universe is conceived as Buddhists, on the one
    hand, and Rationalists, on the other, would have us do;
    fatal, and without intelligence.  Even so, it may be
    delightful to the creator.
      The moral of this chapter is, therefore, and exposition
    of the last paragraph of Chapter 18.
      It is the critical spirit which is the Devil, and gives
    rise to the appearance of evil.








































                                 [53]
                                  22


           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Beta}

                              THE DESPOT

    The waiters of the best eating-houses mock the whole
      world; they estimate every client at his proper
      value.
    This I know certainly, because they always treat me
      with profound respect.  Thus they have flattered
      me into praising them thus publicly.
    Yet it is true; and they have this insight because
      they serve, and because they can have no personal
      interest in the affairs of those whom they serve.
    An absolute monarch would be absolutely wise and
      good.
    But no man is strong enough to have no interest.
      Therefore the best king would be Pure Chance.
    It is Pure Chance that rules the Universe; therefore,
      and only therefore, life is good.
































                                 [54]
                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Beta})


      Comment would only mar the supreme simplicity
    of this chapter.

















































                                 [55]
                                  23

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Gamma}

                                SKIDOO

    What man is at ease in his Inn?
    Get out.
    Wide is the world and cold.
    Get out.
    Thou hast become an in-itiate.
    Get out.
    But thou canst not get out by the way thou camest
      in.  The Way out is THE WAY.
    Get out.
    For OUT is Love and Wisdom and Power.(12)
    Get OUT.
    If thou hast T already, first get UT.(13)
    Then get O.
    And so at last get OUT.


































                                 [56]


                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Gamma})


      Both "23" and "Skidoo" are American words
    meaning "Get out".  This chapter describes the Great
    Work under the figure of a man ridding himself of all
    his accidents.
      He first leaves the life of comfort; then the world at
    large; and, lastly, even the initiates.
      In the fourth section is shown that there is no return
    for one that has started on this path.
      The word OUT is then analysed, and treated as a
    noun.
      Besides the explanation in the note, O is the Yoni;
    T, the Lingam; and U, the Hierophant; the 5th card
    of the Tarot, the Pentagram.  It is thus practically
    identical with IAO.
      The rest of the chapter is clear, for the note.

                                NOTES
      (12) O = {character?}, "The Devil of the Sabbath".  U = 8,
    the Hierophant or Redeemer.  T = Strength, the Lion.
      (13) T, manhood, the sign of the cross or phallus.
    UT, the Holy Guardian Angel; UT, the first syllable
    of Udgita, see the Upanishads.  O, Nothing or Nuit.



























                                 [57]
                                  24

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Delta}

                      THE HAWK AND THE BLINDWORM

    This book would translate Beyond-Reason into the
      words of Reason.
    Explain thou snow to them of Andaman.
    The slaves of reason call this book Abuse-of-
      Language: they are right.
    Language was made for men to eat and drink, make
      love, do barter, die.  The wealth of a language con-
      sists in its Abstracts; the poorest tongues have
      wealth of Concretes.
    Therefore have Adepts praised silence; at least it
      does not mislead as speech does.
    Also, Speech is a symptom of Thought.
    Yet, silence is but the negative side of Truth; the
      positive side is beyond even silence.
    Nevertheless, One True God crieth hriliu!
      And the laughter of the Death-rattle is akin.
































                                 [58]
                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Delta})

      The Hawk is the symbol of sight; the Blindworm, of
    blindness.  Those who are under the dominion of reason
    are called blind.
      In the last paragraph is reasserted the doctrine of
    Chapters 1, 8, 16 and 18.
      For the meaning of the word hriliu consult Liber 418.














































                                 [59]
                                  25

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Epsilon}

                            THE STAR RUBY

    Facing East, in the centre, draw deep deep deep thy
      breath, closing thy mouth with thy right fore-
      finger prest against thy lower lip.  Then dashing
      down the hand with a great sweep back and out,
      expelling forcibly thy breath, cry: {Alpha-Pi-Omicron
      Pi-Alpha-Nu-Tau-Omicron-C? Kappa-Alpha-Kappa-Omicron-Delta-
      Alpha-Iota-Mu-Omicron-Nu-Omicron-C?}.
    With the same forefinger touch thy forehead, and
      say {C?-Omicron-Iota}, thy member, and say {Omega-Phi-Alpha-
                             Lambda-Lambda-Epsilon},(14) thy
      right shoulder, and say {Iota-C?-Chi-Upsilon-Rho-Omicron-C?},
                                                    thy left
      shoulder, and say {Epsilon-Upsilon-Chi-Alpha-Rho-Iota-C?-
                                 Tau-Omicron-C?}; then clasp
      thine hands, locking the fingers, and cry {Iota-Alpha-Omega}.
    Advance to the East.  Imagine strongly a Pentagram.
      aright, in thy forehead.  Drawing the hands to the
      eyes, fling it forth, making the sign of Horus, and
      roar {Chi-Alpha-Omicron-C?}.  Retire thine hand in the sign of Hoor
      pa kraat.
    Go round to the North and repeat; but scream
     {Beta-Alpha-Beta-Alpha-Lambda-Omicron-Nu}.
    Go round to the West and repeat; but say {Epsilon-Rho-Omega-C?}.
    Go round to the South and repeat; but bellow
      {Psi-Upsilon-Chi-Eta}.
    Completing the circle widdershins, retire to the
      centre, and raise thy voice in the Paian, with these
      words {Iota-Omicron Pi-Alpha-Nu} with the signs of N.O.X.
    Extend the arms in the form of a Tau, and say low
      but clear: {Pi-Rho-Omicron Mu-Omicron-Upsilon Iota-Upsilon-
      Gamma-Gamma-Epsilon-C? Omicron-Pi-Iota-C?-Omega Mu-Omicron-
      Upsilon Tau-Epsilon-Lambda-Epsilon-Tau-Alpha-Rho-Chi-Alpha-
      Iota Epsilon-Pi-Iota Delta-Epsilon-Xi-Iota-Alpha C?-Upsilon-
      Nu-Omicron-Chi-Epsilon-C? Epsilon-Pi-Alpha-Rho-Iota-C?-Tau-
      Epsilon-Rho-Alpha Delta-Alpha-Iota-Mu-Omicron-Nu-Epsilon-
      C? Phi-Lambda-Epsilon-Gamma-Epsilon-Iota Gamma-Alpha-Rho
      Pi-Epsilon-Rho-Iota Mu-Omicron-Upsilon Omicron Alpha-C?-
      Tau-Eta-Rho Tau-Omega-Nu Pi-Epsilon-Nu-Tau-Epsilon Kappa-
      Alpha-Iota Epsilon-Nu Tau-Eta-Iota C?-Tau-Eta-Lambda-Eta-
      Iota Omicron Alpha-C?-Tau-Eta-Rho Tau-Omega-Nu Epsilon-Xi
      Epsilon-C?-Tau-Eta-Kappa-Epsilon.
    Repeat the Cross Qabalistic, as above, and end as
      thou didst begin.





                                 [60]
                     COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Epsilon})

      25 is the square of 5, and the Pentagram has the
    red colour of Geburah.
      The chapter is a new and more elaborate version of
    the Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram.
      It would be improper to comment further upon an
    official ritual of the A.'.A.'.

                                 NOTE
      (14) The secret sense of these words is to be sought in
    the numberation thereof.










































                                 [61]
                                  26

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Digamma}

                    THE ELEPHANT AND THE TORTOISE

    The Absolute and the Conditioned together make
      The One Absolute.
    The Second, who is the Fourth, the Demiurge, whom
      all nations of Men call The First, is a lie grafted
      upon a lie, a lie multiplied by a lie.
    Fourfold is He, the Elephant upon whom the
      Universe is poised: but the carapace of the
      Tortoise supports and covers all.
    This Tortoise is sixfold, the Holy Hexagram.(15)
    These six and four are ten, 10, the One manifested
      that returns into the Naught unmanifest.
    The All-Mighty, the All-Ruler, the All-Knower, the
      All-Father, adored by all men and by me
      abhorred, be thou accursed, be thou abolished, be
      thou annihilated, Amen!

































                                 [62]
                     COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Digamma})


      The title of the chapter refers to the Hindu legend.
      The first paragraph should be read in connection
    with our previous remarks upon the number 91.
      The number of the chapter, 26, is that of Tetra-
    grammaton, the manifest creator, Jehovah.
      He is called the Second in relation to that which is
    above the Abyss, comprehended under the title of the
    First.
      But the vulgarians conceive of nothing beyond the
    creator, and therefore call him The First.
      He is really the Fourth, being in Chesed, and of
    course his nature is fourfold.  This Four is conceived
    of as the Dyad multiplied by the Dyad; falsehood con-
    firming falsehood.
      Paragraph 3 introduces a new conception; that of
    the square within the hexagram, the universe enclosed
    in the law of Lingam-Yoni.
      The penultimate paragraph shows the redemption of
    the universe by this law.
      The figure 10, like the work IO, again suggest
    Lingam-Yoni, besides the exclamation given in the
    text.
      The last paragraph curses the universe thus un-
    redeemed.
      The eleven initial A's in the last sentence are Magick
    Pentagrams, emphasising this curse.

                                 NOTE
      (15) In nature the Tortoise has 6 members at angels
    of 60 Degrees.





















                                 [63]
                                  27

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Zeta}

                             THE SORCERER

    A Sorcerer by the power of his magick had subdued
      all things to himself.
    Would he travel?  He could fly through space more
      swiftly than the stars.
    Would he eat, drink, and take his pleasure?  there
      was none that did not instantly obey his bidding.
    In the whole system of ten million times ten million
      spheres upon the two and twenty million planes he
      had his desire.
    And with all this he was but himself.
    Alas!





































                                 [64]
                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Zeta})

      This chapter gives the reverse of the medal; it is the
    contrast to Chapter 15.
      The Sorcerer is to be identified with The Brother of
    the Left Hand Path.
















































                                 [65]
                                  28

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Eta}

                            THE POLE-STAR

    Love is all virtue, since the pleasure of love is but
      love, and the pain of love is but love.
    Love taketh no heed of that which is not and of that
      which is.
    Absence exalteth love, and presence exalteth love.
    Love moveth ever from height to height of ecstasy
      and faileth never.
    The wings of love droop not with time, nor slacken
      for life or for death.
    Love destroyeth self, uniting self with that which is
      not-self, so that Love breedeth All and None in
      One.
    Is it not so?...No?...
    Then thou art not lost in love; speak not of love.
    Love Alway Yieldeth: Love Alway Hardeneth.
    ..........May be: I write it but to write Her name.
































                                 [66]
                       COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Eta})

      This now introduces the principal character of this
    book, Laylah, who is the ultimate feminine symbol, to
    be interpreted on all planes.
      But in this chapter, little hint is given of anything
    beyond physical love.  It is called the Pole-Star, because
    Laylah is the one object of devotion to which the author
    ever turns.
      Note the introduction of the name of the Beloved in
    acrostic in line 15.











































                                 [67]
                                  29

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Kappa-Theta}

                          THE SOUTHERN CROSS

    Love, I love you!  Night, night, cover us!  Thou art
      night, O my love; and there are no stars but thine
      eyes.
    Dark night, sweet night, so warm and yet so fresh,
      so scented yet so holy, cover me, cover me!
    Let me be no more!  Let me be Thine; let me be
      Thou; let me be neither Thou nor I; let there be
      love in night and night in love.
    N.O.X. the night of Pan; and Laylah, the night
      before His threshold!






































                                 [68]
                      COMMENTARY ({Kappa-Theta})

      Chapter 29 continues Chapter 28.
      Note that the word Laylah is the Arabic for "Night".
      The author begins to identify the Beloved with the
    N.O.X. previously spoken of.
      the chapter is called "The Southern Cross", because,
    on the physical plane, Laylah is an Australian.














































                                 [69]
                                  30

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda}

                            JOHN-A-DREAMS

    Dreams are imperfections of sleep; even so is con-
      sciousness the imperfection of waking.
    Dreams are impurities in the circulation of the blood;
      even so is consciousness a disorder of life.
    Dreams are without proportion, without good
      sense, without truth; so also is consciousness.
    Awake from dream, the truth is known:(16) awake
      from waking, the Truth is-The Unknown.








































                                 [70]
                        COMMENTARY ({Lambda})

      This chapter is to read in connection with Chapter 8,
    and also with those previous chapters in which the
    reason is attacked.
      The allusion in the title is obvious.
      This sum in proportion, dream: waking: : waking:
      Samadhi is a favourite analogy with Frater P.,
    who frequently employs it in his holy discourse.

                                 NOTE
      (16) I.e. the truth that he hath slept.










































                                 [71]
                                  31

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Alpha}

                             THE GAROTTE

    IT moves from motion into rest, and rests from rest
      into motion.  These IT does alway, for time is not.
      So that IT does neither of these things.  IT does
      THAT one thing which we must express by two
      things neither of which possesses any rational
      meaning.
    Yet ITS doing, which is no-doing, is simple and yet
      complex, is neither free nor necessary.
    For all these ideas express Relation; and IT, com-
      prehending all Relation in ITS simplicity, is out of
      all Relation even with ITSELF.
    All this is true and false; and it is true and false to
      say that it is true and false.
    Strain forth thine Intelligence, O man, O worthy
      one, O chosen of IT, to apprehend the discourse
      of THE MASTER; for thus thy reason shall at
      last break down, as the fetter is struck from a
      slave's throat.






























                                 [72]
                     COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Alpha})


      The number 31 refers to the Hebrew word LA, which
    means "not".
      A new character is now introduce under the title of
    IT, I being the secret, and T being the manifested,
    phallus.
      This is, however, only one aspect of IT, which may
    perhaps be defined as the Ultimate Reality.
      IT is apparently a more exalted thing than THAT.
      This chapter should be compared with Chapter 11;
    that method of destroying the reason by formulating
    contradictions is definitely inculcated.
      The reason is situated in Daath, which corresponds
    the the throat in human anatomy.  Hence the title of the
    chapter, "The Garotte".
      The idea is that, by forcing the mind to follow, and
    as far as possible to realise, the language of Beyond
    the Abyss, the student will succeed in bringing his
    reason under control.
      As soon as the reason is vanquished, the garotte is
    removed; then the influence of the supernals (Kether,
    Chokmah, Binah), no longer inhibited by Daath, can
    descend upon Tiphareth, where the human will is
    situated, and flood it with the ineffable light.




























                                 [73]
                                  32

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Beta}

                           THE MOUNTAINEER

    Consciousness is a symptom of disease.
    All that moves well moves without will.
    All skillfulness, all strain, all intention is contrary to
      ease.
    Practise a thousand times, and it becomes difficult;
      a thousand thousand, and it becomes easy; a
      thousand thousand times a thousand thousand,
      and it is no longer Thou that doeth it, but It that
      doeth itself through thee.  Not until then is that
      which is done well done.
    Thus spoke FRATER PERDURABO as he leapt
      from rock to rock of the moraine without ever
      casting his eyes upon the ground.



































                                 [74]
                      COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Beta})

      This title is a mere reference to the metaphor of the
    last paragraph of the chapter.
      Frater P., as is well known, is a mountaineer.
    This chapter should be read in conjunction with
    Chapters 8 and 30.
      It is a practical instruction, the gist of which is
    easily to be apprehended by comparatively short practice
    of Mantra-Yoga.
      A mantra is not being properly said as long as the
    man knows he is saying it.  The same applies to all other
    forms of Magick.









































                                 [75]
                                  33

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Gamma}

                               BAPHOMET

    A black two-headed Eagle is GOD; even a Black
      Triangle is He.  In His claws He beareth a sword;
      yea, a sharp sword is held therein.
    This Eagle is burnt up in the Great Fire; yet not a
      feather is scorched.  This Eagle is swallowed up
      in the Great Sea; yet not a feather is wetted.  so
      flieth He in the air, and lighteth upon the earth at
      His pleasure.
    So spake IACOBUS BURGUNDUS MOLENSIS(17)
      the Grand Master of the Temple; and of the GOD
      that is Ass-headed did he dare not speak.





































                                 [76]
                     COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Gamma})

      33 is the number of the Last Degree of Masonry,
    which was conferred upon Frater P. in the year 1900
    of the vulgar era by Don Jesus de Medina-Sidonia in
    the City of Mexico.
      Baphomet is the mysterious name of the God of the
    Templars.
      The Eagle described in paragraph 1 is that of the
    Templars.
      This Masonic symbol is, however, identified by
    Frater P. with a bird, which is master of the four
    elements, and therefore of the name Tetragrammaton.
      Jacobus Burgundus Molensis suffered martyrdom
    in the City of Paris in the year 1314 of the vulgar era.
      The secrets of his order were, however, not lost, and
    are still being communicated to the worthy by his
    successors, as is intimated by the last paragraph, which
    implies knowledge of a secret worship, of which the
    Grand Master did not speak.
      The Eagle may be identified, though not too closely,
    with the Hawk previously spoken of.
      It is perhaps the Sun, the exoteric object of worship
    of all sensible cults; it is not to be confused with other
    objects of the mystic aviary, such as the swan, phoenix,
    pelican, dove and so on.

                                 NOTE
      (17) His initials I.B.M. are the initials of the Three
    Pillars of the Temple, and add to 52, 13x4, BN, the
    Son.























                                 [77]
                                  34

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Delta}

                         THE SMOKING DOG(18)


    Each act of man is the twist and double of an hare.
    Love and death are the greyhounds that course him.
    God bred the hounds and taketh His pleasure in the
      sport.
    This is the Comedy of Pan, that man should think
      he hunteth, while those hounds hunt him.
    This is the Tragedy of Man when facing Love and
      Death he turns to bay.  He is no more hare, but
      boar.
    There are no other comedies or tragedies.
    Cease then to be the mockery of God; in savagery of
      love and death live thou and die!
    Thus shall His laughter be thrilled through with
      Ecstasy.

































                                 [78]
                     COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Delta})

      The title is explained in the note.
      The chapter needs no explanation; it is a definite
    point of view of life, and recommends a course of action
    calculated to rob the creator of his cruel sport.

                                 NOTE
      (18) This chapter was written to clarify {Chi-epsilon-psi-
                                            iota-delta} of
    which it was the origin.  FRATER PERDURABO
    perceived this truth, or rather the first half of it, comedy,
    at breakfast at "Au Chien qui Fume".









































                                 [79]
                                  35

         {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Epsilon}

                            VENUS OF MILO

    Life is as ugly and necessary as the female body.
    Death is as beautiful and necessary as the male
      body.
    The soul is beyond male and female as it is beyond
      Life and Death.
    Even as the Lingam and the Yoni are but diverse
      developments of One Organ, so also are Life and
      Death but two phases of One State.  So also the
      Absolute and the Conditioned are but forms of
      THAT.
    What do I love?  There is no from, no being, to which
      I do not give myself wholly up.
    Take me, who will!



































                                 [80]
                    COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Epsilon})

      This chapter must be read in connection with
    Chapters 1, 3, 4, 8, 15, 16, 18, 24, 28, 29.
      The last sentence of paragraph 4 also connects with
    the first paragraph of Chapter 26.
      The title "Venus of Milo" is an argument in support
    of paragraphs 1 and 2, it being evident from this
    statement that the female body becomes beautiful in so
    far as it approximates to the male.
      The female is to be regarded as having been separated
    from the male, in order to reproduce the male in a
    superior form, the absolute, and the conditions forming
    the one absolute.
      In the last two paragraphs there is a justification of
    a practice which might be called sacred prostitution.
      In the common practice of meditation the idea is to
    reject all impressions, but here is an opposite practice,
    very much more difficult, in which all are accepted.
      This cannot be done at all unless one is capable of
    making Dhyana at least on any conceivable thing, at
    a second's notice; otherwise, the practice would only
    be ordinary mind-wandering.































                                 [81]
                                  36

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Sigma}

                          THE STAR SAPPHIRE

    Let the Adept be armed with his Magick Rood [and
      provided with his Mystic Rose].
    In the centre, let him give the L.V.X. signs; or if
      he know them, if he will and dare do them, and
      can keep silent about them, the signs of N.O.X.
      being the signs of Puer, Vir, Puella, Mulier.  Omit
      the sign I.R.
    Then let him advance to the East, and make the
      Holy Hexagram, saying: PATER ET MATER
      UNIS DEUS ARARITA.
    Let him go round to the South, make the Holy
      Hexagram, and say: MATER ET FILIUS UNUS
      DEUS ARARITA.
    Let him go round to the West, make the Holy
      Hexagram, and say: FILIUS ET FILIA UNUS
      DEUS ARARITA.
    Let him go round to the North, make the Holy
      Hexagram, and then say: FILIA ET PATER
      UNUS DEUS ARARITA.
    Let him then return to the Centre, and so to The
      Centre of All [making the ROSY CROSS as he
      may know how] saying: ARARITA ARARITA
      ARARITA.
    In this the Signs shall be those of Set Triumphant
      and of Baphomet.  Also shall Set appear in the
      Circle.  Let him drink of the Sacrament and let him
      communicate the same.]
    Then let him say: OMNIA IN DUOS: DUO IN
      UNUM: UNUS IN NIHIL: HAE NEC
      QUATUOR NEC OMNIA NEC DUO NEC
      UNUS NEC NIHIL SUNT.
    GLORIA PATRI ET MATRI ET FILIO ET
















                                 [82]
      FILIAE ET SPIRITUI SANCTO EXTERNO
      ET SPIRITUI SANCTO INTERNO UT ERAT
      EST ERIT IN SAECULA SAECULORUM SEX
      IN UNO PER NOMEN SEPTEM IN UNO
      ARARITA.
    Let him then repeat the signs of L.V.X. but not the
      signs of N.O.X.; for it is not he that shall arise in
      the Sign of Isis Rejoicing.





                     COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Sigma})

      The Star Sapphire corresponds with the Star-Ruby
    of Chapter 25; 36 being the square of 6, as 25 is of %.
      This chapter gives the real and perfect Ritual of the
    Hexagram.
      It would be improper to comment further upon an
    official ritual of the A.'.A.'.

































                                 [83]
                                  37

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Zeta}

                               DRAGONS

    Thought is the shadow of the eclipse of Luna.
    Samadhi is the shadow of the eclipse of Sol.
    The moon and the earth are the non-ego and the
      ego: the Sun is THAT.
    Both eclipses are darkness; both are exceeding rare;
      the Universe itself is Light.










































                                 [84]
                      COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Zeta})

      Dragons are in the East supposed to cause eclipses
    by devouring the luminaries.
      There may be some significance in the chapter
    number, which is that of Jechidah the highest unity of
    the soul.
      In this chapter, the idea is given that all limitation
    and evil is an exceedingly rare accident; there can be
    no night in the whole of the Solar System, except in rare
    spots, where the shadow of a planet is cast by itself.
    It is a serious misfortune that we happen to live in a
    tiny corner of the system, where the darkness reaches such
    a high figure as 50 per cent.
      The same is true of moral and spiritual conditions.







































                                 [85]
                                  38

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Eta}

                               LAMBSKIN

    Cowan, skidoo!
    Tyle!
    Swear to hele all.
    This is the mystery.
    Life!
    Mind is the traitor.
    Slay mind.
    Let the corpse of mind lie unburied on the edge of
      the Great Sea!
    Death!
    This is the mystery.
    Tyle!
    Cowan, skidoo!



































                                 [86]
                      COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Eta})

      This chapter will be readily intelligible to E.A.
    Freemasons, and it cannot be explained to others.


















































                                 [87]
                                  39

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Lambda-Theta}

                              THE LOOBY

    Only loobies find excellence in these words.
    It is thinkable that A is not-A; to reverse this is but
      to revert to the normal.
    Yet by forcing the brain to accept propositions of
      which one set is absurdity, the other truism, a
      new function of brain is established.
    Vague and mysterious and all indefinite are the
      contents of this new consciousness; yet they are
      somehow vital.  by use they become luminous.
    Unreason becomes Experience.
    This lifts the leaden-footed soul to the Experience
      of THAT of which Reason is the blasphemy.
    But without the Experience these words are the
      Lies of a Looby.
    Yet a Looby to thee, and a Booby to me, a Balassius
      Ruby to GOD, may be!
































                                 [88]
                     COMMENTARY ({Lambda-Theta})

      The word Looby occurs in folklore, and was supposed
    to be the author, at the time of writing this book, which
    he did when he was far from any standard works of
    reference, to connote partly "booby", partly "lout".
    It would thus be a similar word to "Parsifal".
      Paragraphs 2-6 explain the method that was given
    in Chapters 11 and 31.  This method, however, occurs
    throughout the book on numerous occasions, and even
    in the chapter itself it is employed in the last paragraphs.











































                                 [89]
                                  40

               {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu}

                            THE HIMOG(19)

    A red rose absorbs all colours but red; red is therefore
      the one colour that it is not.
    This Law, Reason, Time, Space, all Limitation blinds
      us to the Truth.
    All that we know of Man, Nature, God, is just that
      which they are not; it is that which they throw off
      as repungnant.
    The HIMOG is only visible in so far as He is imperfect.
    Then are they all glorious who seem not to be glorious,
      as the HIMOG is All-glorious Within?
    It may be so.
    How then distinguish the inglorious and perfect
      HIMOG from the inglorious man of earth?
    Distinguish not!
    But thyself Ex-tinguish: HIMOG art thou, and
      HIMOG shalt thou be.
































                                 [90]
                          COMMENTARY ({MU})

      Paragraph 1 is, of course, a well-known scientific
    fact.
      In paragraph 2 it is suggested analogically that all
    thinkable things are similarly blinds for the Unthinkable
    Reality.
      Classing in this manner all things as illusions, the
    question arises as to the distinguishing between illusions;
    how are we to tell whether a Holy Illuminated Man of
    God is really so, since we can see nothing of him but
    his imperfections. :It may be yonder beggar is a King."
      But these considerations are not to trouble such mind
    as the Chela may possess; let him occupy himself,
    rather, with the task of getting rid of his personality;
    this, and not criticism of his holy Guru, should be the
    occupation of his days and nights.

                                 NOTE
      (19) HIMOG is a Notariqon of the words Holy
    Illuminated Man of God.

































                                 [91]
                                  41

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Alpha}

                          CORN BEEF HASH(20)

    In V.V.V.V.V. is the Great Work perfect.
    Therefore none is that pertaineth not to V.V.V.V.V.
    In any may he manifest; yet in one hath he chosen
      to manifest; and this one hath given His ring as a
      Seal of Authority to the Work of the A.'.A.'.
      through the colleagues of FRATER PER-
      DURABO.
    But this concerns themselves and their administra-
      tion; it concerneth none below the grade of
      Exempt Adept, and such an one only by com-
      mand.
    Also, since below the Abyss Reason is Lord, let men
      seek by experiment, and not by Questionings.



































                                 [92]
                       COMMENTARY ({Mu-Alpha})

      the title is only partially explained i the note; it
    means that the statements in this chapter are to be
    understood in the most ordinary and commonplace
    way, without any mystical sense.
      V.V.V.V.V. is the motto of a Master of the Temple
    (or so much He disclosed to the Exempt Adepts),
    referred to in Liber LXI.  It is he who is responsible
    for the whole of the development of the A,'.A.'. move-
    ment which has been associated with the publication of
    THE EQUINOX; and His utterance is enshrined in
    the sacred writings.
      It is useless to enquire into His nature; to do so leads
    to certain disaster.  Authority from him is exhibited,
    when necessary, to the proper persons, though in no
    case to anyone below the grade of Exempt Adept.  The
    person enquiring into such matters is politely requested
    to work, and not to ask questions about matters which
    in no way concern him.
      The number 41 is that of the Barren Mother.

                                 NOTE
      (20) I.e. food suitable for Americans.






























                                 [93]
                                  42

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Beta}

                             DUST-DEVILS

    In the wind of the mind arises the turbulence
      called I.
    It breaks; down shower the barren thoughts.
    All life is choked.
    This desert is the Abyss wherein the Universe.
      The Stars are but thistles in that waste.
    Yet this desert is but one spot accursed in a world of
      bliss.
    Now and again Travellers cross the desert; they come
      from the Great Sea, and to the Great Sea they go.
    As they go they spill water; one day they will irrigate
      the desert, till it flower.
    See! five footprints of a Camel! V.V.V.V.V.



































                                 [94]
                        COMMENTARY ({Mu-Beta})

      This number 42 is the Great Number of the Curse.  See Liber
    418, Liber 500, and the essay on the Qabalah in the Temple of
    Solomon the King.  This number is said to be all hotch-potch and
    accursed.
      The chapter should be read most carefully in connection with
    the 10th Aethyr.  It is to that dramatic experience that it refers.
      The mind is called "wind", because of its nature; as has been
    frequently explained, the ideas and words are identical.
      In this free-flowing, centreless material arises an eddy; a
    spiral close-coiled upon itself.
      The theory of the formation of the Ego is that of the Hindus,
    whose Ahamkara is itself a function of the mind, whose ego it
    creates.  This Ego is entirely divine.
      Zoroaster describes God as having the head of the Hawk, and
    a spiral force.  It will be difficult to understand this chapter with-
    out some experience in the transvaluation of values, which occurs
    throughout the whole of this book, in nearly every other sentence.
    Transvaluation of values is only the moral aspect of the method
    of contradiction.
      The word "turbulence" is applied to the Ego to suggest the
    French "tourbillion", whirlwind, the false Ego or dust-devil.
      True life, the life, which has no consciousness of "I", is said to
    be choked by this false ego, or rather by the thoughts which its
    explosions produce.  In paragraph 4 this is expanded to a
    macrocosmic plane.
      The Masters of the Temple are now introduced; they are
    inhabitants, not of this desert; their abode is not this universe.
      They come from the Great Sea, Binah, the City of the Pyramids.
    V.V.V.V.V. is indicated as one of these travellers; He is
    described as a camel, not because of the connotation of the French
    form of this word, but because "camel" is in hebrew Gimel, and
    Gimel is the path leading from Tiphareth to Kether, uniting
    Microprosopus and Macroprosopus, i.e. performing the Great
    Work.
     The card Gimel in the Tarot is the High Priestess, the Lady of
    Initiation; one might even say, the Holy Guardian Angel.
















                                 [95]
                                  43

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Gamma}

                            MULBERRY TOPS

    Black blood upon the altar! and the rustle of angel
      wings above!
    Black blood of the sweet fruit, the bruised, the
      violated bloom-that setteth The Wheel a-spinning
      in the spire.
    Death is the veil of Life, and Life of Death; for both
      are Gods.
    This is that which is written: "A feast for Life, and
      a greater feast for Death!" in THE BOOK OF
      THE LAW.
    The blood is the life of the individual: offer then
      blood!




































                                 [96]
                       COMMENTARY ({Mu-Gamma})

      The title of this chapter refers to a Hebrew legend,
    that of the prophet who heard "a going in the mulberry
    tops"; and to Browning's phrase, "a bruised, black-
    blooded mulberry".
      In the World's Tragedy, Household Gods, The
    Scorpion, and also The God-Eater, the reader may
    study the efficacy of rape, and the sacrifice of blood, as
    magical formulae.  Blood and virginity have always
    been the most acceptable offerings to all the gods, but
    especially the Christian God.
      In the last paragraph, the reason of this is explained;
    it is because such sacrifices come under the Great Law
    of the Rosy Cross, the giving-up of the individuality,
    as has been explained as nauseam in previous chapters.
    We shall frequently recur to this subject.
      By "the wheel spinning in the spire" is meant the
    manifestation of magical force, the spermatozoon in the
    conical phallus.  For wheels, see Chapter 78.


































                                 [97]
                                  44

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Delta}

                       THE MASS OF THE PHOENIX

    The Magician, his breast bare, stands before an altar
      on which are his Burin, Bell, Thurible, and two
      of the Cakes of Light.  In the Sign of the Enterer he
      reaches West across the Altar, and cries:
    Hail Ra, that goest in Thy bark
    Into the Caverns of the DarK!

    He gives the sign of Silence, and takes the Bell, and
      Fire, in his hands.
    East of the Altar see me stand
    With Light and Musick in mine hand!

    He strikes Eleven times upon the Bell 3 3 3-5 5 5 5 5-
      3 3 3 and places the Fire in the Thurible.
    I strike the Bell: I light the flame:
    I utter the mysterious Name.
                             ABRAHADABRA
    He strikes Eleven times upon the Bell.

    Now I begin to pray: Thou Child,
    holy Thy name and undefiled!
    Thy reign is come: Thy will is done.
    Here is the Bread; here is the Blood.
    Bring me through midnight to the Sun!
    Save me from Evil and from Good!
    That Thy one crown of all the Ten.
    Even now and here be mine. AMEN.

    He puts the first Cake on the Fire of the Thurible.
    I burn the Incense-cake, proclaim
    These adorations of Thy name.

    He makes them as in Liber Legis, and strikes again
      Eleven times upon the Bell.  With the Burin he then
      makes upon his breast the proper sign.













                                 [98]
    Behold this bleeding breast of mine
    Gashed with the sacramental sign!

    He puts the second Cake to the wound.
    I stanch the blood; the wager soaks
    It up, and the high priest invokes!

    He eats the second Cake.
    This Bread I eat.  This Oath I swear
    As I enflame myself with prayer:
    "There is no grace: there is no guilt:
    This is the Law: DO WHAT THOU WILT!"

    He strikes Eleven times upon the Bell, and cries
      ABRAHADABRA.
    I entered in with woe; with mirth
      I now go forth, and with thanksgiving,
    To do my pleasure on the earth
      Among the legions of the living.

        He goeth forth.



                       COMMENTARY ({Mu-Delta})

      This is the special number of Horus; it is the Hebrew
    blood, and the multiplication of the 4 by the 11, the
    number of Magick, explains 4 in its finest sense.  But
    see in particular the accounts in Equinox I, vii of the
    circumstances of the Equinox of the Gods.
      The word "Phoenix" may be taken as including the
    idea of "Pelican", the bird, which is fabled to feeds its
    young from the blood of its own breast.  Yet the two
    ideas, though cognate, are not identical, and "Phoenix"
    is the more accurate symbol.
      This chapter is explained in Chapter 62.
      It would be improper to comment further upon a
    ritual which has been accepted as official by the
    A.'.A.'.














                                 [99]
                                  45

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Epsilon}

                            CHINESE MUSIC

    "Explain this happening!"
    "It must have a `natural' cause."       \
    "It must have a `supernatural' cause."  / Let
      these two asses be set to grind corn.
    May, might, must, should, probably, may be, we
      may safely assume, ought, it is hardly question-
      able, almost certainly-poor hacks! let them be
      turned out to grass!
    Proof is only possible in mathematics, and mathe-
      matics is only a matter of arbitrary conventions.
    And yet doubt is a good servant but a bad master; a
      perfect mistress, but a nagging wife.
    "White is white" is the lash of the overseer: "white
      is black" is the watchword of the slave.  The Master
      takes no heed.
    The Chinese cannot help thinking that the octave has
      5 notes.
    The more necessary anything appears to my mind,
      the more certain it is that I only assert a limitation.
    I slept with Faith, and found a corpse in my arms on
      awaking; I drank and danced all night with Doubt,
      and found her a virgin in the morning.


























                                [100]
                      COMMENTARY ({Mu-Epsilon})

      The title of this chapter is drawn from paragraph 7.
      We now, for the first time, attack the question of
    doubt.
      "Th Soldier and the Hunchback" should be care-
    fully studied in this connection.  The attitude recom-
    mended is scepticism, but a scepticism under control.
    Doubt inhibits action, as much as faith binds it.  All
    the best Popes have been Atheists, but perhaps the
    greatest of them once remarked, "Quantum nobis
    prodest haec fabula Christi".
      The ruler asserts facts as they are; the slave has there-
    fore no option but to deny them passionately, in order
    to express his discontent.  Hence such absurdities as
    "Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite", "In God we trust", and
    the like.  Similarly we find people asserting today that
    woman is superior to man, and that all men are born
    equal.
      The Master (in technical language, the Magus) does
    not concern himself with facts; he does not care whether
    a thing is true or not: he uses truth and falsehood in-
    discriminately, to serve his ends.  Slaves consider him
    immoral, an preach against him in Hyde Park.
      In paragraphs 7 and 8 we find a most important
    statement, a practical aspect of the fact that all truth
    is relative, and in the last paragraph we see how
    scepticism keeps the mind fresh, whereas faith dies in
    the very sleep that it induces.

























                                [101]
                                  46

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Digamma}

                         BUTTONS AND ROSETTES

    The cause of sorrow is the desire of the One to the
      Many, or of the Many to the One.  This also is the
      cause of joy.
    But the desire of one to another is all of sorrow; its
      birth is hunger, and its death satiety.
    The desire of the moth for the star at least saves him
      satiety.
    Hunger thou, O man, for the infinite: be insatiable
      even for the finite; thus at The End shalt thou
      devour the finite, and become the infinite.
    Be thou more greedy that the shark, more full of
      yearning than the wind among the pines.
    The weary pilgrim struggles on; the satiated pilgrim
      stops.
    The road winds uphill: all law, all nature must be
      overcome.
    Do this by virtue of THAT in thyself before which
      law and nature are but shadows.






























                                [102]
                      COMMENTARY ({Mu-Digamma})

      The title of this chapter is best explained by a refer-
    ence to Mistinguette and Mayol.
      It would be hard to decide, and it is fortunately un-
    necessary even to discuss, whether the distinction of
    their art is the cause, result, or concomitant of their
    private peculiarities.
      The fact remains that in vice, as in everything else,
    some things satiate, others refresh.  Any game in which
    perfection is easily attained soon ceases to amuse,
    although in the beginning its fascination is so violent.
      Witness the tremendous, but transitory, vogue of
    ping-pong and diabolo.  Those games in which per-
    fection is impossible never cease to attract.
      The lesson of the chapter is thus always to rise
    hungry from a meal, always to violate on's own nature.
    Keep on acquiring a taste for what is naturally
    repugnant; this is an unfailing source of pleasure, and
    it has a real further advantage, in destroying the
    Sankharas, which, however "good" in themselves,
    relatively to other Sankharas, are yet barriers upon the
    Path; they are modifications of the Ego, and therefore
    those things which bar it from the absolute.






























                                [103]
                                  47

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Zeta}

                            WINDMILL-WORDS

    Asana gets rid of Anatomy-con-   \
      sciousness.                     | Involuntary
    Pranayama gets rid of Physiology- |  "Breaks"
      consciousness.                  /
    Yama and Niyama get rid of      \   Voluntary
      Ethical consciousness.        /    "Breaks"
    Pratyhara gets rid of the Objective.
    Dharana gets rid of the Subjective.
    Dhyana gets rid of the Ego.
    Samadhi gets rid of the Soul Impersonal.

    Asana destroys the static body (Nama).
    Pranayama destroys the dynamic body (Rupa).
    Yama destroys the emotions.   \ (Vedana).
    Niyama destroys the passions. /
    Dharana destroys the perceptions (Sanna).
    Dhyana destroys the tendencies (Sankhara).
    Samadhi destroys the consciousness (Vinnanam).
    Homard a la Thermidor destroys the digestion.
    The last of these facts is the one of which I am most
      certain.



























                                [104]
                        COMMENTARY ({Mu-Zeta})

      The allusion in the title is not quite clear, though it
    may be connected with the penultimate paragraph.
      The chapter consists of two points of view from which
    to regard Yoga, two odes upon a distant prospect of the
    Temple of Madura, two Elegies on a mat of Kusha-
    grass.
      The penultimate paragraph is introduced by way of
    repose. Cynicism is a great cure for over-study.
      There is a great deal of cynicism in this book, in one
    place and another.  It should be regarded as Angostura
    Bitters, to brighten the flavour of a discourse which
    were else too sweet.  It prevents one from slopping over
    into sentimentality.







































                                [105]
                                  48

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Eta}

                            MOME RATHS(22)

    The early bird catches the worm and the twelve-
      year-old prostitute attracts the ambassador.
    Neglect not the dawn-meditation!

    The first plovers' eggs fetch the highest prices; the
      flower of virginity is esteemed by the pandar.
    Neglect not the dawn-meditation!

    early to bed and early to rise
    Makes a man healthy and wealthy and wise:
    But late to watch and early to pray
    Brings him across The Abyss, they say.
    Neglect not the dawn-meditation!



































                                [106]
                        COMMENTARY ({Mu-Eta})

      This chapter is perfectly simple, and needs no
    comment whatsoever.

                                 NOTE

      (22) "The mome raths outgrabe"-Lewis Carroll.
      But "mome" is Parisian slang for a young girl,
    and "rathe" O.E. for early.  "The rathe primrose"-
    Milton.











































                                [107]
                                  49

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Mu-Theta}

                           WARATAH-BLOSSOMS

    Seven are the veils of the dancing-girl in the harem
      of IT.
    Seven are the names, and seven are the lamps beside
      Her bed.
    Seven eunuchs guard Her with drawn swords; No
      Man may come nigh unto Her.
    In Her wine-cup are seven streams of the blood of
      the Seven Spirits of God.
    Seven are the heads of THE BEAST whereon She
      rideth.
    The head of an Angel: the head of a Saint: the head
      of a Poet: the head of An Adulterous Woman: the
      head of a Man of Valour: the head of a Satyr:
      and the head of a Lion-Serpent.
    Seven letters hath Her holiest name; and it is

                 A      B
                    77
             B              A       (Drawn upon this page is the
                 77     77              Sigil of BABALON.)
              N            L
                     7
                     O

    This is the Seal upon the Ring that is on the Fore-
      finger of IT: and it is the Seal upon the Tombs of
      them whom She hath slain.
    Here is Wisdom.  Let Him that hath Understanding
      count the Number of Our Lady; for it is the
      Number of a Woman; and Her Number is
        An Hundred and Fifty and Six.

















                                [108]
                       COMMENTARY ({Mu-theta})

      49 is the square of 7.
      7 is the passive and feminine number.
      The chapter should be read in connection with Chapter 31
    for IT now reappears.
      The chapter heading, the Waratah, is a voluptuous scarlet
    flower, common in Australia, and this connects the chapter
    with Chapters 28 and 29; but this is only an allusion, for
    the subject of the chapter is OUR LADY BABALON,
    who is conceived as the feminine counterpart of IT.
      This does not agree very well with the common or orthodox
    theogony of Chapter 11; but it is to be explained by the
    dithyrambic nature of the chapter.
      In paragraph 3 NO MAN is of course NEMO, the
    Master of the Temple, Liber 418 will explain most of the
    allusions in this chapter.
      In paragraphs 5 and 6 the author frankly identifies him-
    self with the BEAST referred to in the book, and in the
    Apocalypse, and in LIBER LEGIS.  In paragraph 6 the
    word "angel" may refer to his mission, and the word
    "lion-serpent" to the sigil of his ascending decan. (Teth=
    Snake=spermatozoon and Leo in the Zodiac, which like
    Teth itself has the snake-form.  theta first written {Sun} = Lingam-
    Yoni and Sol.)
      Paragraph 7 explains the theological difficulty referred
    to above.  There is only one symbol, but this symbol has
    many names: of those names BABALON is the holiest.
    It is the name referred to in Liber Legis, 1, 22.
      It will be noticed that the figure, or sigil, of BABALON
    is a seal upon a ring, and this ring is upon the forefinger
    of IT.  This identifies further the symbol with itself.
      It will be noticed that this seal, except for the absence of
    a border, is the official seal of the A.'.A.'. Compare Chapter
    3.
      It is also said to be the seal upon the tombs of them that
    she hath slain, that is, of the Masters of the Temple.
      In connection with the number 49, see Liber 418, the
    22nd Aethyr, as well as the usual authorities.















                                [109]
                                  50

               {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu}

                       THE VIGIL OF ST. HUBERT

    In the forest God met the Stag-beetle.  "Hold!  Wor-
      ship me!" quoth God.  "For I am All-Great, All-
      Good, All Wise....The stars are but sparks from
      the forges of My smiths...."
    "Yea, verily and Amen," said the Stag-beetle, "all
      this do I believe, and that devoutly."
    "Then why do you not worship Me?"
    "Because I am real and your are only imaginary."
    But the leaves of the forest rustled with the laughter
      of the wind.
    Said Wind and Wood: "They neither of them know
      anything!"




































                                [110]
                          COMMENTARY ({Nu})

      St. Hubert appears to have been a saint who saw a
    stag of a mystical or sacred nature.
      The Stag-beetle must not be identified with the one
    in Chapter 16.  It is a merely literary touch.
      the chapter is a resolution of the universe into
    Tetragrammaton; God the macrocosm and the micro-
    cosm beetle.  Both imagine themselves to exist; both say
    "you" and "I", and discuss their relative reality.
      The things which really exist, the things which have
    no Ego, and speak only in the third person, regard
    these as ignorant, on account of their assumption of
    Knowledge.








































                                [111]
                                  51

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Alpha}

                             TERRIER-WORK

    Doubt.
    Doubt thyself.
    Doubt even if thou doubtest thyself.
    Doubt all.
    Doubt even if thou doubtest all.
    It seems sometimes as if beneath all conscious doubt
      there lay some deepest certainty.  O kill it!  Slay the
      snake!
    The horn of the Doubt-Goat be exalted
    Dive deeper, ever deeper, into the Abyss of Mind,
      until thou unearth the fox THAT.  On, hounds!
      Yoicks!  Tally-ho!  Bring THAT to bay!
    Then, wind the Mort!



































                                [112]
                       COMMENTARY ({Nu-Alpha})

      The number 51 means failure and pain, and its
    subject is appropriately doubt.
      The title of the chapter is borrowed from the health-
    giving and fascinating sport of fox-hunting, which
    Frater Perdurabo followed in his youth.
      This chapter should be read in connection with "The
    Soldier and the Hunchback" of which it is in some sort
    an epitome.
      Its meaning is sufficiently clear, but in paragraphs
    6 and 7 it will be noticed that the identification of the
    Soldier with the Hunchback has reached such a pitch
    that the symbols are interchanged, enthusiasm being
    represented as the sinuous snake, scepticism as the
    Goat of the Sabbath.  In other words, a state is reached
    in which destruction is as much joy as creation.
    (Compare Chapter 46.)
      Beyond that is a still deeper state of mind, which is
    THAT.


































                                [113]
                                  52

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Beta}

                           THE BULL-BAITING

    Fourscore and eleven books wrote I; in each did I
      expound THE GREAT WORK fully, from The
      beginning even unto The End thereof.
    Then at last came certain men unto me, saying:
      O Master!  Expound thou THE GREAT WORK
      unto us, O Master!
    And I held my peace.
    O generation of gossipers!  who shall deliver you
      from the Wrath that is fallen upon you?
    O Babblers, Prattlers, Talkers, Loquacious Ones,
      Tatlers, Chewers of the Red Rag that inflameth
      Apis the Redeemer to fury, learn first what is
      Work!  and THE GREAT WORK is not so far
      beyond!


































                                [114]
                        COMMENTARY ({Nu-Beta})

      52 is BN, the number of the Son, Osiris-Apis, the
    Redeemer, with whom the Master (Fra. P.) identifies
    himself.  he permits himself for a moment the pleasure
    of feeling his wounds; and, turning upon his generation,
    gores it with his horns.
      The fourscore-and-eleven books do not, we think,
    refer to the ninety-one chapters of this little master-
    piece, or even to the numerous volumes he has penned,
    but rather to the fact that 91 is the number of Amen,
    implying the completeness of his work.
      In the last paragraph is a paranomasia.  "To chew
    the red rag" is a phrase for to talk aimlessly and per-
    sistently, while it is notorious that a red cloth will excite
    the rage of a bull.






































                                [115]
                                  53

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Gamma}

                              THE DOWSER

    Once round the meadow.  Brother, does the hazel
      twig dip?
    Twice round the orchard.  Brother, does the hazel
      twig dip?
    Thrice round the paddock, Highly, lowly, wily, holy,
      dip, dip, dip!
    Then neighed the horse in the paddock-and lo!
      its wings.
    For whoso findeth the SPRING beneath the earth
      maketh the treaders-of-earth to course the heavens.
    This SPRING is threefold; of water, but also of steel,
      and of the seasons.
    Also this PADDOCK is the Toad that hath the
      jewel between his eyes-Aum Mani Padmen
      Hum! (Keep us from Evil!)

































                                [116]
                       COMMENTARY ({Nu-Gamma})

      A dowser is one who practises divination, usually with
    the object of finding water or minerals, by means of the
    vibrations of a hazel twig.
      The meadow represents the flower of life; the orchard its
    fruit.
      The paddock, being reserved for animals, represents life
    itself.  That is to say, the secret spring of life is found in the
    place of life, with the result that the horse, who represents
    ordinary animal life, becomes the divine horse Pegasus.
      In paragraph 6 we see this spring identified with the
    phallus, for it is not only a source of water, but highly
    elastic, while the reference to the seasons alludes to the well-
    known lines of the late Lord Tennyson:

    "In the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnished dove,
     In the Spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts
          of love."
                                          -Locksley Hall.

      In paragraph 7 the place of life, the universe of animal
    souls, is identified with the toad, which

               "Ugly and venomous,
                Wears yet a precious jewel in his head"
                                 -Romeo and Juliet-

    this jewel being the divine spark in man, and indeed in all
    that "lives and moves and has its being".  Note this phrase,
    which is highly significant; the word "lives" excluding the
    mineral kingdom, the word "moves" the vegetable kingdom,
    and the phrase "has its being" the lower animals, including
    woman.
      This "toad" and "jewel" are further identified with the
    Lotus and jewel of the well-known Buddhist phrase and
    this seems to suggest that this "toad" is the Yoni; the
    suggestion is further strengthened by the concluding phrase
    in brackets, "Keep us from evil", since, although it is the
    place of life, the means of grace, it may be ruinous.














                                [117]
                                  54

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Delta}


    Five and forty apprentice masons out of work!
    Fifteen fellow-craftsmen out of work!
    Three Master Masons out of work!
    All these sat on their haunches waiting The Report
      of the Sojourner; for THE WORD was lost.
    This is the Report of the Sojourners: THE WORD
      was LOVE;(23) and its number is An Hundred and
      Eleven.
    Then said each AMO;(24) for its number is An Hundred
      and Eleven.
    Each took the Trowel from his LAP,(25) whose number
      is AN Hundred and Eleven.
    Each called moreover on the Goddess NINA,(26) for
      Her number is An Hundred and Eleven.
    Yet with all this went The Work awry; for THE
      WORD OF THE LAW IS {Theta-Epsilon-Lambda-Eta-Mu-Alpha}.

































                                [118]
                       COMMENTARY ({Nu-Delta})

      The title of this chapter refers to the duty of the Tyler
    in a blue lodge of Freemasons.
      The numbers in paragraphs 1 to 3 are significant;
    each Master-Mason is attended by 5 Fellow-Crafts,
    and each Fellow-Craft by 3 Apprentices, as if the
    Masters were sitting in pentagrams, and the Fellow-
    Craftsmen in triangles.  This may refer to the number of
    manual signs in each of these degrees.
      The moral of the chapter is apparently that the
    mother-letter {Aleph} is an inadequate solution of the Great
    Problem.  {Aleph} is identified with the Yoni, for all the
    symbols connected with it in this place are feminine,
    but {Aleph} is also a number of Samadhi and mysticism, and
    the doctrine is therefore that Magick, in that highest
    sense explained in the Book of the Law, is the truer
    key.

                                NOTES
      (23) L=30, O=70, V=6, E=5=111.
      (24) A=1, M=40, O=70=111.
      (25) The trowel is shaped like a diamond or Yoni.
        L=30, A=1, P=80=111
      (26) N=50, I=10, N=50, A=1=111.





























                                [119]
                                  55

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Epsilon}

                        THE DROOPING SUNFLOWER

    The One Thought vanished; all my mind was torn to
      rags: --- nay! nay! my head was mashed into
      wood pulp, and thereon the Daily Newspaper was
      printed.
    Thus wrote I, since my One Love was torn from me.
      I cannot work: I cannot think: I seek distraction
      here: I seek distraction there: but this is all my
      truth, that I who love have lost; and how may I
      regain?
    I must have money to get to America.
    O Mage! Sage! Gauge thy Wage, or in the Page of
      Thine Age is written Rage!
    O my darling!  We should not have spent Ninety
      Pounds in that Three Weeks in Paris!...Slash the
      Breaks on thine arm with a pole-axe!

































                                [120]
                      COMMENTARY ({Nu-Epsilon})

      The number 55 refers to Malkuth, the ride; it
    should then be read in connection with Chapters 28, 29,
    49.
      The "drooping sunflower" is the heart, which needs
    the divine light.
      Since Jivatma was separated from Paramatma, as
    in paragraph 2, not only is the Divine Unity destroyed
    but Daath, instead of being the Child of Chokmah and
    Binah, becomes the Abyss, and the Qliphoth arise.
    The only sense which abides is that of loss, and the
    craving to retrieve it.  In paragraph 3 it is seen that this
    is impossible, owing (paragraph 4) to his not having
    made proper arrangements to recover the original
    position previous to making the divisions.
      In paragraph 5 it is shown that this is because of
    allowing enjoyment to cause forgetfulness of the really
    important thing.  Those who allow themselves to wallow
    in Samadhi are sorry for it afterwards.
      The last paragraph indicaed the precautions to be
    taken to avoid this.
      The number 90 is the last paragraph is not merely
    fact, but symbolism; 90 being the number of Tzaddi,
    the Star, looked at in its exoteric sense, as a naked
    woman, playing by a stream, surrounded by birds and
    butterflies.  The pole-axe is recommended instead of
    the usual razor, as a more vigorous weapon.  One
    cannot be too severe in checking any faltering in the
    work, any digression from the Path.
























                                [121]
                                  56

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Digamma}

                          TROUBLE WITH TWINS

    Holy, holy, holy, unto Five Hundred and Fifty Five
      times holy be OUR LADY of the STARS!
    Holy, holy, holy, unto One Hundred and Fifty Six
      times holy be OUR LADY that rideth upon THE
      BEAST!
    Holy, holy, holy, unto the Number of Times
      Necessary and Appropriate be OUR LADY
      Isis in Her Millions-of-Names, All-Mother,
      Genetrix-Meretrix!
    Yet holier than all These to me is LAYLAH, night
      and death; for Her do I blaspheme alike the finite
      and the The Infinite.
    So wrote not FRATER PERDURABO, but the
      Imp Crowley in his Name.
    For forgery let him suffer Penal Servitude for Seven
      Years; or at least let him do Pranayama all the
      way home-home? nay! but to the house of the
      harlot whom he loveth not.  For it is LAYLAH that
      he loveth...................................

    And yet who knoweth which is Crowley, and which is
      FRATER PERDURABO?


























                                [122]
                      COMMENTARY ({Nu-Digamma})

      The number of the chapter refers to Liber Legis I, 24,
    for paragraph 1 refers to Nuit.  The "twins" in the
    title are those mentioned in paragraph 5.
      555 is HADIT, HAD spelt in full.  156 is
    BABALON.
      In paragraph 4 is the gist of the chapter, Laylah
    being again introduced, as in Chapters 28, 29, 49 and
    55.
      The exoteric blasphemy, it is hinted i the last
    paragraph, may be an esoteric arcanum, for the Master
    of the Temple is interested in Malkuth, as Malkuth is
    in Binah; also "Malkuth is in Kether, and Kether in
    Malkuth"; and, to the Ipsissimus, dissolution in the
    body of Nuit and a visit to a brothel may be identical.






































                                [123]
                                  57

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Zeta}

                       THE DUCK-BILLED PLATYPUS

    Dirt is matter in the wrong place.
    Thought is mind in the wrong place.
    Matter is mind; so thought is dirt.
    Thus argued he, the Wise One, not mindful that all
      place is wrong.
    For not until the PLACE is perfected by a T saith
      he PLACET.
    The Rose uncrucified droppeth its petals; without
      the Rose the Cross is a dry stick.
    Worship then the Rosy Cross, and the Mystery of
      Two-in-One.
    And worship Him that swore by His holy T that One
      should not be One except in so far as it is Two.
    I am glad that LAYLAH is afar; no doubt clouds
      love.

































                                [124]
                        COMMENTARY ({Nu-Zeta})

      The title of the chapter suggest the two in one, since
    the ornithorhynchus is both bird and beast; it is also
    an Australian animal, like Laylah herself, and was
    doubtless chosen for this reason.
      This chapter is an apology for the universe.
      Paragraphs 1-3 repeat the familiar arguments
    against reason in an epigrammatic form.
      Paragraph 4 alludes to Liber Legis I, 52; "place"
    implies space; denies homogeneity to space; but when
    "place" is perfected by "t"-as it were, Yoni by Lingam
    -we get the word "placet", meaning "it pleases".
      Paragraphs 6 and 7 explain this further; it is
    necessary to separate things, in order that they might
    rejoice in uniting.  See Liber Legis I, 28-30, which is
    paraphrased in the penultimate paragraph.
      In the last paragraph this doctrine is interpreted
    in common life by a paraphrase of the familiar and
    beautiful proverb,  "Absence makes the heart grow
    fonder".  (PS. I seem to get a subtle after-taste of
    bitterness.)
      (It is to be observed that the philosopher having first
    committed the syllogistic error quaternis terminorum,
    in attempting to reduce the terms to three, staggers into
    non distributia medii.  It is possible that considerations
    with Sir Wm. Hamilton's qualification (or quantifica-
    tion (?)) of the predicate may be taken as intervening,
    but to do so would render the humour of the chapter too
    subtle for the average reader in Oshkosh for whom
    this book is evidently written.)























                                [125]
                                  58

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Eta}

    Haggard am I, an hyaena; I hunger and howl.  Men
      think it laughter-ha! ha! ha!
    There is nothing movable or immovable under the
      firmament of heaven on which I may write the
      symbols of the secret of my soul.
    Yea, though I were lowered by ropes into the
      utmost Caverns and Vaults of Eternity, there is
      no word to express even the first whisper of the
      Initiator in mine ear: yea, I abhor birth, ululating
      lamentations of Night!
    Agony!  Agony! the Light within me breeds veils; the
      song within be dumbness.
    God! in what prism may any man analyse my Light?
    Immortal are the adepts; and ye  hey die-They
      die of SHAME unspeakable; They die as the
      Gods die, for SORROW.
    Wilt thou endure unto THe End, O FRATER
      PERDURABO, O Lamp in The Abyss?  Thou hast
      the Keystone of the Royal Arch; yet the
      Apprentices, instead of making bricks, put the
      straws in their hair, and think they are Jesus
      Christ!
    O sublime tragedy and comedy of THE GREAT
      WORK!


























                                [126]
                        COMMENTARY ({Nu-Eta})

      Haggai, a notorious Hebrew prophet, is a Second
    Officer in a Chapter of the Royal Arch Masons.
      In this chapter the author, in a sort of raging
    eloquence, bewails his impotence to express himself,
    or to induce others to follow into the light.  In para-
    graph 1 he explains the sardonic laughter, for which he
    is justly celebrated, as being in reality the expression of
    this feeling.
      Paragraph 2 is a reference to the Obligation of an
    Entered Apprentice Mason.
      Paragraph 3 refers to the Ceremony of Exaltation
    in Royal Arch Masonry.  The Initiate will be able to
    discover the most formidable secret of that degree con-
    cealed in the paragraph.
      Paragraphs 4-6 express an anguish to which that of
    Gethsemane and Golgotha must appear like whitlows.
      In paragraph 7 the agony is broken up by the
    sardonic or cynical laughter to which we have previously
    alluded.
      And the final paragraph, in the words of the noblest
    simplicity, praises the Great Work; rejoices in its
    sublimity, in the supreme Art, in the intensity of the
    passion and ecstasy which it brings forth.  (Note that
    the words "passion" and "ecstasy" may be taken as
    symbolical of Yoni and Lingam.)



























                                [127]
                                  59

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Nu-Theta}

    There is no help-but hotch pot!-in the skies
    When Astacus sees Crab and Lobster rise.
    Man that has spine, and hopes of heaven-to-be,
    Lacks the Amoeba's immortality.
    What protoplasm gains in mobile mirth
    Is loss of the stability of earth.
    Matter and sense and mind have had their day:
    Nature presents the bill, and all must pay.
    If, as I am not, I were free to choose,
    How Buddhahood would battle with The Booze!
    My certainty that destiny is "good"
    Rests on its picking me for Buddhahood.
    Were I a drunkard, I should think I had
    Good evidence that fate was "bloody bad".




































                                [128]
                       COMMENTARY ({Nu-Theta})

      The title is a euphemism for homo sapiens.
      The crab and the lobster are higher types of crustacae
    than the crayfish.
      The chapter is a short essay in poetic form on
    Determinism.  It hymns the great law of Equilibrium
    and Compensation, but cynically criticises all philo-
    sophers, hinting that their view of the universe depends
    on their own circumstances.  The sufferer from toothache
    does not agree with Doctor Pangloss, that "all is for
    the best in the best of all possible worlds".  Nor does the
    wealthiest of our Dukes complain to his cronies that
    "Times is cruel 'ard".








































                                [129]
                                  60

               {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi}

                       THE WOUND OF AMFORTAS(27)

    The Self-mastery of Percivale became the Self-
      masturbatery of the Bourgeois.
    Vir-tus has become "virture".
    The qualities which have made a man, a race, a city,
      a caste, must be thrown off; death is the penalty
      of failure.  As it is written: In the hour of success
      sacrifice that which is dearest to thee unto the
      Infernal Gods!
    The Englishman lives upon the excrement of his
      forefathers.
    All moral codes are worthless in themselves; yet in
      every new code there is hope.  Provided always that
      the code is not changed because it is too hard, but
      because if is fulfilled.
    The dead dog floats with the stream; in puritan
      France the best women are harlots; in vicious
      England the best women are virgins.
    If only the Archbishop of Canterbury were to go
      make in the streets and beg his bread!
    The new Christ, like the old, it the friend of publicans
      and sinners; because his nature is ascetic.
    O if everyman did No Matter What, provided that it
      is the one thing that he will not and cannot do!

























                                [130]
                          COMMENTARY ({Xi})

      The title is explained in the note.
      The number of the chapter may refer to the letter
    Samech ({Samech}), Temperence, in the Tarot.
      I paragraph 1 the real chastity of Percivale or
    Parsifal, a chastity which did not prevent his dipping
    the point of the sacred lance into the Holy Grail, is
    distinguished from its misinterpretation by modern
    crapulence.  The priests of the gods were carefully
    chosen, and carefully trained to fulfill the sacrament of
    fatherhood; the shame of sex consists in the usurpation
    of its function by the unworthy.  Sex is a sacrament.
     The word virtus means "the quality of manhood".
    Modern "virtue" is the negation of all such qualities.
      In paragraph 3, however, we see the penalty of
    conservatism; children must be weaned.
      In the penultimate paragraph the words "the new
    Christ" alluded to the author.
      In the last paragraph we reach the sublime mystic
    doctrine that whatever you have must be abandoned.
    Obviously, that which differentiates your consciousness
    from the absolute is part of the content of that con-
    sciousness.

                                 NOTE
      (27) Chapter so called because Amfortas was
    wounded by his own spear, the spear that had made him
    king.

























                                [131]
                                  61

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Alpha}

                           THE FOOL'S KNOT

    O Fool! begetter of both I and Naught, resolve this
      Naught-y Knot!
    O! Ay! this I and O-IO!-IAO! For I owe "I"
      aye to Nibbana's Oe.(28)
    I Pay-Pe, the dissolution of the House of God-
      for Pe comes after O-after Ayin that triumphs
      over Aleph in Ain, that is O.(29)
    OP-us, the Work! the OP-ening of THE EYE!(30)
    Thou Naughty Boy, thou openest THE EYE OF
      HORUS to the Blind Eye that weeps!(31)  The Up-
      right One in thine Uprightness rejoiceth-Death
      to all Fishes!(32)




































                                [132]
                        COMMENTARY ({Xi-Alpha})


  The number of this chapter refers to the Hebrew word Ain, the negative and
Ani, 61.
  The "fool" is the Fool of the Tarot, whose number is 0, but refers the the le
tter
Aleph, 1.
  A fool's knot is a kind of knot which, although it has the appearance of a kn
ot, is
not really a knot, but pulls out immediately.
  The chapter consists of a series of complicated puns on 1 and I, with regard
to
their shape, sound, and that of the figures which resemble them in shape.
  Paragraph 1 calls upon the Fool of the Tarot, who is to be referred to Ipsiss
imus,
to the pure fool, Parsifal, to resolve this problem.
  The word Naught-y suggests not only that the problem is sexual, but does not
really
exist.
  Paragraph 2 shows the Lingam and Yoni as, in conjunction, the foundation of
ecstasy (I)!), and of the complete symbol I A O.
  The latter sentence of the paragraph unites the two meanings of giving up the
Lingam to the Yoni, and the Ego to the Absolute.
  This idea, "I must give up", I owe, is naturally completed by I pay, and the
sound of the word "pay" suggest the Hebrew letter Pe (see Liber XVI), which
represents the final dissolution in Shivadarshana.
  I Hebrew, the letter which follows O is P; i therefore follows Ayin, the Devi
l
of the Tarot.
  AYIN is spelt O I N, thus replacing the A in A I N by an O, the letter of the
Devil, or Pan, the phallic God.
  Now AIN means nothing, and thus the replacing of AIN by OIN means the
completion of the Yoni by the Lingam, which is followed by the complete dissolu
tion
symbolised in the letter P.
  These letters, O P, are then seen to be the root of opus, the Latin word for
"work",
in this case, the Great Work.  And they also begin the word "opening".  I hindu
philosophy, it is said that Shiva, the Destroyer, is asleep, and that when he o
pens
his eye the universe is destroyed-another synonym, therefore, for the accomplis
h-
ment of the Great Work.  But the "eye" of Shiva is also his Lingam.  Shiva is
himself the Mahalingam, which unites these symbolisms.  The opening of the eye,
the ejaculation of the lingam, the destruction of the universe, the accomplishm
ent
of the Great Work-all these are different ways of saying the same thing.
  The last paragraph is even obscurer to those unfamiliar to the masterpiece
referred to in the note; for the eye of Horus (see 777, Col.
    XXI, line 10, "the blind
eye that weeps" is a poetic Arab name for the lingam).
  The doctrine is that the Great Work should be accomplished without creating n
ew
Karma, for the letter N, the fish, the vesica, the womb, breeds, whereas the Ey
e of
Horus does not; or, if it does so, breeds, according to Turkish tradition, a Me
ssiah.
  Death implies resurrection; the illusion is reborn, as the Scythe of Death in
 the
Tarot has a crosspiece.  This is in connection with the Hindu doctrine, express
ed
in their injunction, "Fry your seeds".  Act so as to balance your past Karma,
and create no new, so that, as it were, the books are balanced.  WHile you have
either a credit or a debit, you are still in account with the universe.
  (N.B. Frater P. wrote this chapter-61-while dining with friends, in about a
minute and a half.  That is how you must know the Qabalah.)

                               NOTE
  (28) Oe = Island, a common symbol of Nibbana.
  (29) {Vau-Yod-Aleph} Ain.  {Vau-Yod-Ayin} Ayin.
  (30) Scil. of Shiva.
  (31) Cf. Bagh-i-Muattar for all this symbolism.
  (32) Death = Nun, the letter before O, means a fish, a symbol of Christ, and
also by its shape the Female principle


















































                                [133]
                                  62

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Beta}

                              TWIG?(33)

    The Phoenix hat a Bell for Sound; Fire for Sight; a
      Knife for Touch; two cakes, one for taste, the other
      for smell.
    He standeth before the Altar of the Universe at
      Sunset, when Earth-life fades.
    He summons the Universe, and crowns it with
      MAGICK Light to replace the sun of natura light.
    He prays unto, and give homage to, Ro-Hoor_khuit;
      to Him he then sacrifices.
    The first cake, burnt, illustrates the profit drawn
      from the scheme of incarnation.
    The second, mixt with his life's blood and eaten,
      illustrates the use of the lower life to feed the
      higher life.
    He then takes the Oath and becomes free-un
      conditioned-the Absolute.
    Burning up i the Flame of his Prayer, and born
      again-the Phoenix!






























                                [134]
                        COMMENTARY ({Xi-Beta})

      This chapter is itself a comment on Chapter 44.

                                 NOTE
      (33) Twig? = dost thou understand?  Also the Phoenix
    takes twigs to kindle the fire in which it burns itself.















































                                [135]
                                  63

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Gamma}

                             MARGERY DAW

    I love LAYLAH.
    I lack LAYLAH.
    "Where is the Mystic Grace?" sayest thou?
    Who told thee, man, that LAYLAH is not Nuit, nd
      I hadit?
    I destroyed all things; they are reborn in other
      shapes.
    I gave up all for One; this One hath given up its
      Unity for all?
    I wrenched DOG backwards to find GOD; now GOD
      barks.
    Think me not fallen because I love LAYLAH, and
      lack LAYLAH.
    I am the Master of the Universe; then give me a
      heap of straw in a hut, and LAYLAH naked!
      Amen.
































                                [136]
                       COMMENTARY ({Xi-Gamma})

      This chapter returns to the subject of Laylah, and
    to the subject already discussed in Chapters 3 and
    others, particularly Chapter 56.
      The title of the chapter refers to the old rime:
               "See-saw, Margery Daw,
                Sold her bed to lie upon straw.
                Was not she a silly slut
                To sell her bed to lie upon dirt?"
      The word "see-saw" is significant, almost a comment
    upon this chapter.  To the Master of the Temple
    opposite rules apply.  His unity seeks the many, and
    the many is again transmuted to the one.  Solve et
    Coagula.







































                                [137]
                                  64

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Delta}

                              CONSTANCY


    I was discussing oysters with a crony:
    GOD sent to me the angels DIN and DONI.
    "An man of spunk," they urged, "would hardly
      choose
    To breakfast every day chez Laperouse."
    "No!" I replied, "h would not do so, BUT
    Think of his woe if Laperouse were shut!
    "I eat these oysters and I drink this wine
    Solely to drown this misery of mine.
    "Yet the last height of consolation's cold:
    Its pinnacle is-not to be consoled!
    "And though I sleep with Janefore and Eleanor
    "And Julian only fixes in my mind
    Even before feels better than behind.
    "You are Mercurial spirits-be so kind
    As to enable me to raise the wind.
    "Put me in LAYLAH'S arms again: the Accurst,
    Leaving me that. elsehow may do his worst."
    DONI and DIN, perceiving me inspired,
    Conceived their task was finished: they retired.
    I turned upon my friend, and, breaking bounds,
    Borrowed a trifle of two hundred pounds.

























                                [138]
                       COMMENTARY ({Xi-Delta})


      64 is the number of Mercury, and of the intelligence
    of that planet, Din and Doni.
      Th moral of the chapter is that one wants liberty,
    although one may not wish to exercise it: the author
    would readily die in defence of the right of Englishmen
    to play football, or of his own right not to play it.
    (As a great poet has expressed it: "We don't want to
    fight, but, by Jingo, if we do-")  This is his meaning
    towards his attitude to complete freedom of speech and
    action.  He refuses to listen to the ostensible criticism of
    the spirits, and explains his own position.  Their real
    mission was to rouse him to confidence and action.







































                                [139]
                                  65

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Epsilon}

                           SIC TRANSEAT---

    "At last I lifted up mine eyes, and beheld; and lo!
      the flames of violet were become as tendrils of
      smoke, as mist at sunset upon the marsh-lands.
    "And in the midst of the moon-pool of silver was the
      Lily of white and gold.  In this Lily is all honey,
      in this Lily that flowereth at the midnight.  In
      this Lily is all perfume; in this Lily is all music.
      And it enfolded me."
    Thus the disciples that watched found a dead body
      kneeling at the altar.  Amen!






































                                [140]
                      COMMENTARY ({Xi-Epsilon})

      65 is the number of Adonai, the Holy Guardian
    Angel; see Liber 65, Liber Konx Om Pax, and other
    works of reference.
      The chapter title means, "So may he pass away",
    the blank obviously referring to N E M O.
      The "moon-pool of silver" is the Path of Gimel,
    leading from Tiphareth to Kether; the "flames of violet"
    are the Ajna-Chakkra; the lily itself is Kether, the
    lotus of the Sahasrara.  "Lily" is spelt with a capital to
    connect with Laylah.










































                                [141]
                                  66

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Digamma}

                          THE PRAYING MANTIS

    "Say: God is One."  This I obeyed: for a thousand
      and one times a night for one thousand nights and
      one did I affirm th Unity.
    But "night" only means LAYLAH(34); and Unity and
      GOD are not worth even her blemishes.
    Al-lah is only sixty-six; but LAYLAH counteth
      up to Seven and Seventy.(35)
    "Yea! the night shall cover all; the night shall cover
      all."







































                                [142]
                      COMMENTARY ({Xi-Digamma})


      66 is the number of Allah; the praying mantis is a
    blasphemous grasshopper which caricatures the pious.
      The chapter recurs to the subject of Laylah, whom
    the author exalts above God, in continuation of the
    reasonings given in Chapter 56 and 63.  She is
    identified with N.O.X. by the quotation from Liber 65.

                                NOTES
      (34) Laylah is the Arabic for night.
      (35) A L L H = 1 + 30 + 30 + 5 = 66.  L + A + I
    + L + A + H = 77, which also gives MSL, the In-
    fluence of the Highest, OZ, a goat, and so on.







































                                [143]
                                  67

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Zeta}

                             SODOM-APPLES

    I have bought pleasant trifles, and thus soothed my
      lack of LAYLAH.
    Light is my wallet, and my heart is also light; and
      yet I know that the clouds will gather closer for
      the false clearing.
    The mirage will fade; then will the desert be thirstier
      than before.
    O ye who dwell in the Dark Night of the Soul, beware
      most of all of every herald of the Dawn!
    O ye who dwell in the City of the Pyramids beneath
      the Night of PAN, remember that ye shall see no
      more light but That of the great fire that shall
      consume your dust to ashes!



































                                [144]
                        COMMENTARY ({Xi-Zeta})

      This chapter means that it is useless to try to abandon
    the Great Work.  You may occupy yourself for a time
    with other things, but you will only increase your
    bitterness, rivet the chains still on your feet.
      Paragraph 4 is a practical counsel to mystics not
    to break up their dryness by relaxing their austerities.
      The last paragraph will only be understood by
    Masters of the Temple.












































                                [145]
                                  68

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Eta}

                                MANNA

    At four o'clock there is hardly anybody in Rumpel-
      mayer's.
    I have my choice of place and service; the babble of
      the apes will begin soon enough.
    "Pioneers, O Pioneers!"
    Sat no Elijah under the Juniper-tree, and wept?
    Was not Mohammed forsaken in Mecca, and Jesus
      in Gethsemane?
    These prophets were sad at heart; but the chocolate
      at Rumpelmayer's is great, and the Mousse Noix
      is like Nepthys for perfection.
    Also there are little meringues with cream and
      chestnut-pulp, very velvety seductions.
    Sail I not toward LAYLAH within seven days?
    Be not sad at heart, O prophet; the babble of the
      apes will presently begin.
    Nay, rejoice exceedingly; for after all the babble of
      the apes the Silence of the Night.






























                                [146]
                        COMMENTARY ({Xi-Eta})


      Manna was a heavenly cake which, in the legend, fed
    the Children of Israel in the Wilderness.
      The author laments the failure of his mission to
    mankind, but comforts himself with the following
    reflections:
      (1) He enjoys the advantages of solitude.  (2) Previous
      prophets encountered similar difficulties in con-
      vincing their hearers.  (3) Their food was not equal to
      that obtainable at Rumpelmayer's.  (4) In a few days
      I am going to rejoin Laylah.  (5) My mission will
      succeed soon enough.  (6) Death will remove the
      nuisance of success.







































                                [147]
                                  69

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Xi-Theta}

                  THE WAY TO SUCCEED-AND THE WAY TO
                              SUCK EGGS!

    This is the Holy Hexagram.
    Plunge from the height, O God, and interlock with
      Man!
    Plunge from the height, O Man, and interlock with
      Beast!
    The Red Triangle is the descending tongue of grace;
      the Blue Triangle is the ascending tongue of
      prayer
    This Interchange, the Double Gift of Tongues, the
      Word of Double Power-ABRAHADABRA!-is
      the sign of the GREAT WORK, for the GREAT
      WORK is accomplished in Silence.  And behold is
      not that Word equal to Cheth, that is Cancer.
      whose Sigil is {Cancer}?
    This Work also eats up itself, accomplishes its own
      end, nourishes the worker, leaves no seed, is per-
      fect in itself.
    Little children, love one another!





























                                [148]
                       COMMENTARY ({Xi-Theta})


      The key to the understanding of this chapter is given
    in the number and the title, the former being intelligible
    to all nations who employ Arabic figures, the latter
    only to experts in deciphering English puns.
      The chapter alludes to Levi's drawing of the Hexa-
    gram, and is a criticism of, or improvement upon, it.
    In the ordinary Hexagram, the Hexagram of nature,
    the red triangle is upwards, like fire, and the blue
    triangle downwards, like water.  In the magical hexa-
    gram this is revered; the descending red triangle is
    that of Horus, a sign specially revealed by him per-
    sonally, at the Equinox of the Gods.  (It is the flame
    desending upon the altar, and licking up the burnt
    offering.)  The blue triangle represents the aspiration,
    since blue is the colour of devotion, and the triangle,
    kinetically considered, is the symbol of directed force.
      In the first three paragraphs this formation of the
    hexagram is explained; it is a symbol of the mutual
    separation of the Holy Guardian Angel and his client.
    In the interlocking is indicated the completion of the
    work.
      Paragraph 4 explains in slightly different language
    what we have said above, and the scriptural image of
    tongues is introduced.
      In paragraph 5 the symbolism of tongues is further
    developed.  Abrahadabra is our primal example of an
    interlocked word.  We assume that the reader has
    thoroughly studied that word in Liber D., etc.  The
    sigil of Cancer links up this symbolism with the number
    of the chapter.
      The remaining paragraphs continue the Gallic
    symbolism.



















                                [149]
                                  70

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron}

                         BROOMSTICK-BABBLINGS

    FRATER PERDURABO is of the Sanhedrim of the
      Sabbath, say men; He is the Old Goat himself,
      say women.
    Therefore do all adore him; the more they detest
      him the more do they adore him.
    Ay! let us offer the Obscene Kiss!
    Let us seek the Mystery of the Gnarled Oak, and of
      the Glacier Torrent!
    To Him let us offer our babes!  Around Him let
      us dance in the mad moonlight!
    But FRATER PERDURABO is nothing but AN
      EYE; what eye none knoweth.
    Skip, witches!  Hop, toads!  Take your pleasure!-
      for the play of the Universe is the pleasure of
      FRATER PERDURABO.

































                                [150]
                        COMMENTARY ({Omicron})

      70 is the number of the letter Ain, the Devil in the
    Tarot.
      The chapter refers to the Witches' Sabbath, the
    description of which in Payne Knight should be
    carefully read before studying this chapter.  All the
    allusions will then be obvious, save those which we
    proceed to not.
      Sanhedrim, a body of 70 men.  An Eye.  Eye in
    Hebrew is Oin, 70.
      The "gnarled oak" and the "glacier torrent" refer
    to the confessions made by many witches.
      I paragraph 7 is seen the meaning of the chapter;
    the obscene and distorted character of much of the
    universe is a whim of the Creator.






































                                [151]
                                  71

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Alpha}

                        KING'S COLLEGE CHAPEL

    For mind and body alike there is no purgative like
      Pranayama, no purgative like Pranayama.
    For mind, for body, for mind and body alike-
      alike!-there is, there is, there is no purgative, no
      purgative like Pranayama-Pranayama!-Prana-
      yama! yea, for mind and body alike there is no
      purgative, no purgative, no purgative (for mind
      and body alike!) no purgative, purgative, purgative
      like Pranayama, no purgative for mind and body
      alike, like Pranayama, like Pranayama, like
      Prana-Prana-Prana-Prana-pranayama!
      -Pranayama!
                                AMEN.



































                                [152]
                     COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Alpha})

      This chapter is a plain statement of fact, put in
    anthem form for emphasis.
      The title is due to the circumstances of the early
    piety of Frater Perdurabo, who was frequently
    refreshed by hearing the anthems in this chief of the
    architectural glories of his Alma Mater.














































                                [153]
                                  72

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Beta}

                           HASHED PHEASANT

    Shemhamphorash! all hail, divided Name!
      Utter it once, O mortal over-rash!-
    The Universe were swallowed up in flame
      -Shemhamphorash!

    Nor deem that thou amid the cosmic crash
      May find one thing of all those things the same!
    The world has gone to everlasting smash.

    No! if creation did possess an aim
      (It does not.) it were only to make hash
    Of that most "high" and that most holy game,
      Shemhamphorash!



































                                [154]
                     COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Beta})

      There are three consecutive verses in the Pentateuch,
    each containing 72 letters.  If these be written beneath
    each other, the middle verse bring reversed, i.e. as in
    English, and divisions are then made vertically, 72
    tri-lateral names are formed, the sum of which is
    Tetragrammaton; this is the great and mysterious
    Divided Name; by adding the terminations Yod He,
    or Aleph Lamed, the names of 72 Angels are formed.
    The Hebrews say that by uttering this Name the
    universe is destroyed.  This statement means the same
    as that of the Hindus, that the effective utterance of
    the name of Shiva would cause him to awake, and so
    destroy the universe.
      In Egyptian and Gnostic magick we meet with pylons
    and Aeons, which only open on the utterance of the
    proper word.
      In Mohammedan magick we find a similar doctrine
    and practice; and the whole of Mantra-Yoga has been
    built on this foundation.
      Thoth, the god of Magick, is the inventor of speech;
    Christ is the Logos.
      Lines 1-4 are now clear.
      In lines 507 we see the results of Shivadarshana.  Do
    not imagine that any single ides, however high, however
    holy (or even however insignificant!!), can escape the
    destruction.
      The logician my say, "But white exists, and if
    white is destroyed, it leaves black; yet black exists.  So
    that in that case at least one known phenomenon of this
    universe is identical with one of that."  Vain word!
    The logician and his logic are alike involved in the
    universal ruin.
      Lines 8-11 indicate that this fact is the essential one
    about Shivadarshana.
      The title is explained by the intentionally blasphemous
    puns and colloquialisms of lines 9 and 10.
















                                [155]
                                  73

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Gamma}


                   THE DEVIL, THE OSTRICH, AND THE
                             ORPHAN CHILD

    Death rides the Camel of Initiation.(36)
    Thou humped and stiff-necked one that groanest in
      Thine Asana, death will relieve thee!
    Bite not, Zelator dear, but bide!  Ten days didst
      thou go with water in thy belly?  Thou shalt go
      twenty more with a firebrand at thy rump!
    Ay! all thine aspiration is to death: death is the
      crown of all thine aspiration.  Triple is the cord of
      silver moonlight; it shall hang thee, O Holy One,
      O Hanged Man, O Camel-Termination-of-the-
      third-person-plural for thy multiplicity, thou
      Ghost of a Non-Ego!
    Could but Thy mother behold thee, O thou UNT!(37)
    The Infinite Snake Ananta that surroundeth the
      Universe is but the Coffin-Worm!































                                [156]
                   COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Gamma})


  The Hebrew letter Gimel adds up to 73; it means a camel.
  The title of the chapter is borrowed from the well-known lines of Rudyard
Kipling:
       "But the commissariat camel, when all is said and done,
        'E's a devil and an awstridge and an orphan-child in one."
  Paragraph 1 may imply a dogma of death as the highest form of initiation.
Initiation is not a simple phenomenon.  Any given initiation must take place
on several planes, and is not always conferred on all of these simultaneously.
Intellectual and moral perception of truth often, one might almost say usually,
precedes spiritual and physical perceptions.  One would be foolish to claim
initiation unless it were complete on every plane.
  Paragraph 2 will easily be understood by those who have practised
Asana.  there is perhaps a sardonic reference to rigor mortis, and certainly
one conceives the half-humorous attitude of the expert towards the beginner.
  Paragraph 3 is a comment in the same tone of rough good nature.  The word
Zelator is used because the Zelator of the A.'.A.'. has to pass an examination
in Asana before he becomes eligible for the grade of Practicus.  The ten days
allude merely to the tradition about the camel, that he can go ten days without
water.
  Paragraph 4 identifies the reward of initiation with death; it is a cessation
of all that we call life, in a way in which what we call death is not.  3, silv
er,
and  the moon, are all correspondences of Gimel, the letter of the Aspiration,
since gimel is the Path that leads from the Microcosm in tiphareth to the
Macrocosm in Kether.
  The epithets are far too complex to explain in detail, but Mem, the Hanged
man, has a close affinity for Gimel, as will be seen by a study of Liber 418.
  Unt is not only the Hindustani for Camel, but the usual termination of the
third person plural of the present tense of Latin words of the Third and
Fourth Conjugations.
  The reason for thus addresing the reader is that he has now transcended the
first and second persons.  Cf. Liber LXV, Chapter III, vv. 21-24, and
FitzGerald's Omar Khayyam:
            "Some talk there was of Thee and Me
             There seemed; and then no more of Thee and Me.")
The third person plural must be used, because he has now perceived himself
to be a bundle of impressions.  For this is the point on the Path of Gimel when
he is actually crossing the Abyss; the student must consult the account of this
given in "The Temple of Solomon the King".
  The Ego is but "the ghost of a non-Ego", the imaginary focus at which the
non-Ego becomes sensible.
  Paragraph 5 expresses the wish of the Guru that his Chela may attain safely
to binah, the Mother.
  Paragraph 6 whispers the ultimate and dread secret of initiation into his
ear, identifying the vastness of the Most Holy with the obscene worm that
gnaws the bowels of the damned.

                              NOTES
  (36) Death is said by the Arabs to ride a Camel.  The Path of Gimel (which
means a Camel) leads from Tiphareth to Kether, and its Tarot trump
    is the "High Priestess".
  (37) UNT, Hindustani for Camel.  I.e. Would that BABALON might look
on thee with favour.            [157]
                                  74

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Delta}

                             CAREY STREET

    When NOTHING became conscious, it made a bad
      bargain.
    This consciousness acquired individuality: a worse
      bargain.
    The Hermit asked for love; worst bargain of all.
    And now he has let his girl go to America, to have
      "success" in "life": blank loss.
    Is there no end to this immortal ache
    That haunts me, haunts me sleeping or awake?
      If I had Laylah, how could I forget
      Time, Age, and Death?  Insufferable fret!
        Were I an hermit, how could I support
        The pain of consciousness, the curse of thought?
          Even were I THAT, there still were one sore
            spot-
          The Abyss that stretches between THAT and
            NOT.
    Still, the first step is not so far away:-
    The Mauretania sails on Saturday!





























                                [158]
                     COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Delta})


      Carey Street is well known to prosperous Hebrews
    and poor Englishmen as the seat of the Bankruptcy
    buildings.
      Paragraphs 1-4 are in prose, the downward course,
    and the rest of the chapter in poetry, the upward.
      The first part shows the fall from Nought in four
    steps; the second part, the return.
      The details of this Hierarchy have already been
    indicated in various chapters.  It is quite conventional
    mysticism.
      Step 1, the illumination of Ain as Ain Soph Aour;
    step 2, the concentration of Ain Soph Aour in Kether;
    step 3, duality and the rest of it down to Malkuth;
    step 4, the stooping of Malkuth to the Qliphoth, and
    the consequent ruin of the Tree of Life.
      Part 2 show the impossibility of stopping on the
    Path of Adeptship.
      The final couplet represents the first step upon the
    Path, which must be taken even although the aspirant
    is intellectually aware of the severity of the whole
    course.  You must give up the world for love, the
    material for the moral idea, before that, in its turn, is
    surrendered to the spiritual.  And so on.  This is a
    Laylah-chapter, but in it Laylah figures as the mere
    woman.


























                                [159]
                                  75

         {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Epsilon}

                          PLOVERS' EGGS(38)

    Spring beans and strawberries are in: goodbye to the
      oyster!
    If I really knew what I wanted, I could give up
      Laylah, or give up everything for Laylah.
    But "what I want" varies from hour to hour.
    This wavering is the root of all compromise, and so
      of all good sense.
    With this gift a man can spend his seventy years in
      peace.
    Now is this well or ill?
    Emphasise gift, then man, then spend, then seventy
      years, and lastly peace, and change the intonations
      --each time reverse the meaning!
    I would show you how; but-for the moment!
    --I prefer to think of Laylah.

































                                [160]
                    COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Epsilon})

      The title is explained in the note, but also alludes to
    paragraph 1, the plover's egg being often contemporary
    with the early strawberry.
      Paragraph 1 means that change of diet is pleasant;
    vanity pleases the mind; the idee fixe is a sign of
    insanity.  See paragraphs 4 and 5.
      Paragraph 6 puts the question, "Then is sanity or
    insanity desirable?"  The oak is weakened by the ivy
    which clings around it, but perhaps the ivy keeps it
    from going mad.
      The next paragraph expresses the difficulty of
    expressing thought in writing; it seems, on the face of
    it, absurd that the the text of this book, composed as it is
    of English, simple, austere, and terse, should need a
    commentary.  But it does so, or my most gifted Chela
    and myself would hardly have been at the pains to
    write one.  It was in response to the impassioned appeals
    of many most worthy brethren that we have yielded up
    that time and thought which gold could not have bought,
    or torture wrested.
      Laylah is again the mere woman.

                                 NOTE
      (38) These eggs being speckled, resemble the wander-
    ing mind referred to.



























                                [161]
                                  76

         {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Digamma}

                               PHAETON

    No.
    Yes.
    Perhaps.
    O!
    Eye.
    I.
    Hi!
    Y?
    No.
    Hail! all ye spavined, gelded, hamstrung horses!
    Ye shall surpass the planets in their courses.
    How?  Not by speed, nor strength, nor power to stay,
    But by the Silence that succeeds the Neigh!



































                                [162]
                  COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Digamma})

  Phaeton was the charioteer of the Sun in Greek mythology.
  At first sight the prose of this chapter, though there is only one dissyllabl
e in
it, appears difficult; but this is a glamour cast by Maya.  It is a compendium
of
various systems of philosophy.
  No = Nihilism; Yes = Monism, and all dogmatic systems; Perhaps =
Pyrrhonism and Agnosticism; O! = The system of Liber Legis.  (See Chapter 0.)
  Eye = Phallicism (cf. Chapters 61 and 70); I = Fichteanism; Hi! =
Transcendentalism; Y? = Scepticism, and the method of science.  No denies
all these and closes the argument.
  But all this is a glamour cast by Maya; the real meaning of the prose of this
chapter is as follows:
  No, some negative conception beyond the IT spoken of in Chapters 31, 49
and elsewhere.
  Yes, IT.
  Perhaps, the flux of these.
  O!, Nuit, Hadit, Ra-Hoor-Khuit.
  Eye, the phallus in Kether.
  I, the Ego in Chokmah.
  Hi!, Binah, the feminine principle fertilised.  (He by Yod.)
  Y?, the Abyss.
  No, the refusal to be content with any of this.
  But all this is again only a glamour of Maya, as previously observed in the
text (Chapter 31).  All this is true and false, and it is true and false to say
 that
it is true and false.
  The prose of this chapter combines, and of course denies, all these meanings,
both singly and in combination.  It is intended to stimulate thought to the
point where it explodes with violence and for ever.
  A study of this chapter is probably the best short cut to Nibbana.
  The thought of the Master in this chapter is exceptionally lofty.
  That this is the true meaning, or rather use, of this chapter, is evident fro
m
the poetry.
  The master salutes the previous paragraphs as horses which, although in
themselves worthless animals (without the epithets), carry the Charioteer in th
e
path of the Sun.  The question, How?  Not by their own virtues, but by the
silence which results when they are all done with.
  The word "neigh" is a pun on "nay", which refers to the negative conception
already postulated as beyond IT.  The suggestion is, that there may be somethin
g
falsely described as silence, to represent absence-of-conception beyond that
negative.
  It would be possible to interpret this chapter in its entirety as an adverse
criticism of metaphysics as such, and this is doubtless one of its many sub-
meanings.










                              [163]
                                  77

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Zeta}

    THE SUBLIME AND SUPREME SEPTENARY
      IN ITS MATURE MAGICAL MANIFESTATION
      THROUGH MATTER:  AS IT IS WRITTEN: AN
      HE-GOAT ALSO

    Laylah.












































                                [164]
                     COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Zeta})

      77 is the number of Laylah (LAILAH), to whom this
    chapter is wholly devoted.
      The first section of the title is an analysis of 77 considered
    as a mystic number.
      7, the septenary; 11, the magical number; 77, the mani-
    festation, therefore, of the septenary.
      Through matter, because 77 is written in Hebrew Ayin
    Zayin (OZ), and He-Goat, the symbol of matter, Capri-
    cornus, the Devil of the Tarot; which is the picture of the
    Goat of the Sabbath upon an altar, worshipped by two other
    devils, male and female.
      As will be seen from the photogravure inserted opposite
    this chapter, Laylah is herself not devoid of "Devil", but,
    as she habitually remarks, on being addressed in terms
    implying this fact, "It's nice to be a devil when you're one
    like me."
      The text need no comment, but it will be noticed that it is
    much shorter that the title.
      Now, the Devil of the Tarot is the Phallus, the Redeemer,
    and Laylah symbolises redemption to Frater P.  The
    number 77, also, interpreted as in the title, is the redeeming
    force.
      The ratio of the length of title and text is the key to the
    true meaning of the chapter, which is, that Redemption is
    really as simple as it appears complex, that the names (or
    veils) of truth are obscure and many, the Truth itself plain
    and one; but that the latter must be reached through the
    former.  This chapter is therefore an apology, were one
    needed, for the Book of Lies itself.  In these few simple
    words, it explains the necessity of the book, and offers it-
    humbly, yet with confidence-as a means of redemption to
    the world of sorrowing men.
      The name with full-stops: L.A.Y.L.A.H. represents an
    analysis of the name, which may be left to the ingenium of
    the advanced practicus (see photograph).

















                                [165]
                                  78

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Eta}

                           WHEEL AND--WOA!

    The Great Wheel of Samsara.
    The Wheel of the Law [Dhamma].
    The Wheel of the Taro.
    The Wheel of the Heavens.
    The Wheel of Life.
    All these Wheels be one; yet of all these the Wheel of
      the TARO alone avails thee consciously.
    Meditate long and broad and deep, O man, upon this
      Wheel, revolving it in thy mind
    Be this thy task, to see how each card springs
      necessarily from each other card, even in due order
      from The Fool unto The Ten of Coins.
    Then, when thou know'st the Wheel of Destiny
      complete, mayst thou perceive THAT Will which
      moved it first.  [There is no first or last.}
    And lo! thou art past through the Abyss.
































                                [166]
                      COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Eta})

      The number of this chapter is that of the cards of the
    Tarot.
      The title of this chapter is a pun of the phrase "weal
    and woe".  It means motion and rest.  The moral is the
    conventional mystic one; stop thought at its source!
      Five wheels are mentioned in this chapter; all but
    the third refer to the universe as it is; but the wheel of
    the Tarot is not only this, but represents equally the
    Magickal Path.
      This practice is therefore given by Frater P. to
    his pupils; to treat the sequence of the cards as cause
    and effect.  Thence, to discover the cause behind all
    causes. Success in this practice qualifies for the grade
    of Master of the Temple.
      In the penultimate paragraph the bracketed passage
    reminds the student that the universe is not to be
    contemplated as a phenomenon in time.



































                                [167]
                                  79

          {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Omicron-Theta}

                           THE BAL BULLIER

    Some men look into their minds into their memories,
      and find naught but pain and shame.
    These then proclaim "The Good Law" unto mankind.
    These preach renunciation, "virtue", cowardice in
      every form.
    These whine eternally.
    Smug, toothless, hairless Coote, debauch-emascu-
      lated Buddha, come ye to me?  I have a trick to
      make you silent, O ye foamers-at-the mouth!
    Nature is wasteful; but how well She can afford it!
    Nature is false; but I'm a bit of a liar myself.
    Nature is useless; but then how beautiful she is!
    Nature is cruel; but I too am a Sadist.
    The game goes on; it y have been too rough for
      Buddha, but it's (if anything) too dull for me.
    Viens, beau negre!  Donne-moi tes levres encore!
































                                [168]
                     COMMENTARY ({Omicron-Theta})

      the title of this chapter is a place frequented by
    Frater P. until it became respectable.
      The chapter is a rebuke to those who can see nothing
    but sorrow and evil in the universe.
      The Buddhist analysis may be true, but not for
    men of courage.  The plea that "love is sorrow", because
    its ecstasies are only transitory, is contemptible.
      Paragraph 5.  Coote is a blackmailer exposed by The
    Equinox.  The end of the paragraph refers to Catullus,
    his famous epigram about the youth who turned his
    uncle into Harpocrates.  It is a subtle way for Frater P.
    to insist upon his virility, since otherwise he could not
    employ the remedy.
      The last paragraph is a quotation.  In Paris,
    Negroes are much sought after by sportive ladies.  This
    is therefore presumably intended to assert that even
    women may enjoy life sometimes.
      The word "Sadist" is taken from the famous Marquis
    de Sade, who gave supreme literary form to the joys of
    torture.
































                                [169]
                                  80

               {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi}

                              BLACKTHORN

    The price of existence is eternal warfare.(39)
    Speaking as an Irishman, I prefer to say: The price
      of eternal warfare is existence.
    And melancholy as existence is, the price is well
      worth paying.
    Is there is a Government?  then I'm agin it!  To Hell
      with the bloody English!
    "O FRATER PERDURABO, how unworthy are
      these sentiments!"
    "D'ye want a clip on the jaw?"(40)






































                                [170]
                          COMMENTARY ({Pi})

      Frater P. continues the subject of Chapter 79.
      He pictures himself as a vigorous, reckless, almost
    rowdy Irishman.  he is no thin-lipped prude, to seek
    salvation in unmanly self-abnegation; no Creeping
    Jesus, to slink through existence to the tune of the Dead
    March in Saul; no Cremerian Callus to warehouse his
    semen in his cerebellum.
      "New Thoughtist" is only Old Eunuch writ small.
      Paragraph 2 gives the very struggle for life, which
    disheartens modern thinkers, as a good enough reason for
    existence.
      Paragraph 5 expresses the sorrow of the modern
    thinker, and paragraph 6 Frater P.'s suggestion for
    replying to such critics.

                                NOTES
      (39) ISVD, the foundation scil. of the universe = 80
    = P, the letter of Mars.
      (40) P also means "a mouth".

































                                [171]
                                  81

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Alpha}

                             LOUIS LINGG

    I am not an Anarchist in your sense of the word:
      your brain is too dense for any known explosive
      to affect it.
    I am not an Anarchist in your sense of the word:
      fancy a Policeman let loose on Society!
    While there exists the burgess, the hunting man, or
      any man with ideals less than Shelley's and self-
      discipline less than Loyola's-in short, any man
      who falls far short of MYSELF-I am against
      Anarchy, and for Feudalism.
    Every "emancipator" has enslaved the free.





































                                [172]
                       COMMENTARY ({Pi-Alpha})


      The title is the name of one of the authors of the affair
    of the Haymarket, in Chicago.  See Frank Harris,
    "The Bomb".
      Paragraph 1 explains that Frater P. sees no use
    in the employment of such feeble implements as bombs.
    Nor does he agree even with the aim of the Anarchists,
    since, although Anarchists themselves need no restraint,
    not daring to drink cocoa, lest their animal passions
    should be aroused (as Olivia Haddon assures my
    favourite Chela), yet policemen, unless most severely
    repressed, would be dangerous wild beasts.
      The last bitter sentence is terribly true; the personal
    liberty of the Russian is immensely greater than that of
    the Englishman.  The latest Radical devices for
    securing freedom have turned nine out of ten English-
    men into Slaves, obliged to report their movements to
    the government like so many ticket-of-leave men.
      The only solution of the Social Problem is the
    creation of a class with the true patriarchal feeling,
    and the manners and obligations of chivalry.































                                [173]
                                  82

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Beta}

                               BORTSCH

    Witch-moon that turnest all the streams to blood,
      I take this hazel rod, and stand, and swear
      An Oath-beneath this blasted Oak and bare
    That rears its agony above the flood
      Whose swollen mask mutters an atheist's prayer.
    What oath may stand the shock of this offence:
    "There is no I, no joy, no permanence"?

    Witch-moon of blood, eternal ebb and flow
      Of baffled birth, in death still lurks a change;
      And all the leopards in thy woods that range,
    And all the vampires in their boughs that glow,
      Brooding on blood-thirst-these are not so strange
    And fierce as life's unfailing shower.  These die,
      Yet time rebears them through eternity.

    Hear then the Oath, with-moon of blood, dread
      moon!
      Let all thy stryges and thy ghouls attend!
      He that endureth even to the end
    Hath sworn that Love's own corpse shall lie at noon
      Even in the coffin of its hopes, and spend
    All the force won by its old woe and stress
    In now annihilating Nothingness.

        This chapter is called Imperial Purple
                 and A Punic War.





















                                [174]
                        COMMENTARY ({Pi-Beta})

      The title of this chapter, and its two sub-titles, will
    need no explanation to readers of the classics.
      This poem, inspired by Jane Cheron, is as simple
    as it is elegant.
      The poet asks, in verse 1, How can we baffle the
    Three Characteristics?
      In verse 2, he shows that death is impotent against
    life.
      In verse 3, he offers the solution of the problem.
      This is, to accept things as they are, and to turn
    your whole energies to progress on the Path.









































                                [175]
                                  83

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Gamma}

                          THE BLIND PIG(41)

    Many becomes two: two one: one Naught.  What
      comes to Naught?
    What!  shall the Adept give up his hermit life, and
      go eating and drinking and making merry?
    Ay! shall he not do so? he knows that the Many is
      Naught; and having Naught, enjoys that Naught
      even in the enjoyment of the Many.
    For when Naught becomes Absolute Naught, it
      becomes again the Many.
    Any this Many and this Naught are identical; they
      are not correlatives or phases of some one deeper
      Absence-of-Idea; they are not aspects of some
      further Light: they are They!
    Beware, O my brother, lest this chapter deceive
      thee!

































                                [176]
                       COMMENTARY ({Pi-Gamma})

      The title of this chapter refers to the Greek number,
    PG being "Pig" without an "i".
      The subject of the chapter is consequently corollary
    to Chapters 79 and 80, the ethics of Adept life.
      The Adept has performed the Great Work; He has
    reduced the Many to Naught; as a consequence, he
    is no longer afraid of the Many.
      Paragraph 4.  See berashith.
      Paragraph 5, takes things for what they are; give up
    interpreting, refining away, analysing.  Be simple and
    lucid and radiant as Frater P.
      Paragraph 6.  With this commentary there is no
    further danger, and the warning becomes superfluous.

                                 NOTE
      (41) {Pi-Upsilon} = PG = Pig without an I = Blind Pig.




































                                [177]
                                  84

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Delta}

                            THE AVALANCHE

    Only through devotion to FRATER PERDURABO
      may this book be understood.
    How much more then should He devote Himself to
      AIWASS for the understanding of the Holy Books
      of {Theta-Epsilon-Lambda-Eta-Mu-Alpha}?
    Yet must he labour underground eternally.  The
      sun is not for him, nor the flowers, nor the voices
      of the birds; for he is past beyond all these.  Yea,
      verily, oft-times he is weary; it is well that the
      weight of the Karma of the Infinite is with him.
    Therefore is he glad indeed; for he hath finished THE
      WORK; and the reward concerneth him no whit.




































                                [178]
                       COMMENTARY ({Pi-Delta})


      This continues the subject of Chapter 83.
      The title refers to the mental attitude of the Master;
    the avalanche does not fall because it is tired of staying
    on the mountain, or in order to crush the Alps below it,
    or because that it feels that it needs exercise.  Perfectly
    unconscious, perfectly indifferent, it obeys the laws of
    Cohesion and of Gravitation.
      It is the sun and its own weight that loosen it.
      So, also, is the act of the Adept.  "Delivered from the
    lust of result, he is every way perfect."
      Paragraphs 1 and 2.  By "devotion to Frater Per-
    durabo" is not meant sycophancy, but intelligent
    reference and imaginative sympathy.  Put your mind
    in tune with his; identify yourself with him as he
    seeks to identify himself with the Intelligence that
    communicates to him the Holy Books.
      Paragraphs 3 and 4 are explained by the 13th
    Aethyr and the title.

































                                [179]
                                  85

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Epsilon}

                              BORBORYGMI

    I distrust any thoughts uttered by any man whose
      health is not robust.
    All other thoughts are surely symptoms of disease.
    Yet these are often beautiful, and may be true within
      the circle of the conditions of the speaker.
    Any yet again!  Do we not find that the most robust
      of men express no thoughts at all?  They eat, drink,
      sleep, and copulate in silence.
    What better proof of the fact that all thought is
      dis-ease?
    We are Strassburg geese; the tastiness of our talk
      comes from the disorder of our bodies.
    We like it; this only proves that our tastes also are
      depraved and debauched by our disease.


































                                [180]
                      COMMENTARY ({Pi-Epsilon})

      We now return to that series of chapters which started
    with Chapter 8 ({Eta}).
      The chapter is perfectly simple and needs no com-
    ment.
















































                                [181]
                                  86

           {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Digamma}

    Ex nihilo N. I. H. I. L. fit.
    N. the Fire that twisteth itself and burneth like a
      scorpion.
    I, the unsullied ever-flowing water.
    H. the interpenetrating Spirit, without and within.
      Is not its name ABRAHADABRA?
    I. the unsullied ever-flowing air.
    L. the green fertile earth.
    Fierce are the Fires of the Universe, and on their
      daggers they hold aloft the bleeding heart of earth.
    Upon the earth lies water, sensuous and sleepy.
    Above the water hangs air; and above air, but also
      below fire-and in all-the fabric of all being
      woven on Its invisible design, is
                         {Alpha-Iota-Theta-Eta-Rho}.



































                                [182]
                    COMMENTARY ({Pi-Digamma})

  The number 86 refers to Elohim, the name of the elemental
forces.
  The title is the Sanskrit for That, in its sense of "The Existing".
  This chapter is an attempt to replace Elohim by a more
satisfactory hieroglyph of the elements.
  The best attribution of Elohim is Aleph, Air; Lamed, Earth;
He, Spirit; Yod, Fire; Mem, Water.  But the order is not good;
Lamed is not satisfactory for Earth, and Yod too spiritualised a
form of Fire.  (But see Book 4, part III.)
  Paragraphs 1-6.  Out of Nothing, Nothing is made.  The word
Nihil is taken to affirm that the universe is Nothing, and that is
now to be analysed.  The order of the element is that of Jeheshua.
The elements are taken rather as in Nature; N is easily Fire,
since Mars is the ruler of Scorpio: the virginity of I suits Air
and Water, elements which in Magick are closely interwoven:
H, the letter of of breath, is suitable for Spirit; Abrahadabra is
called the name of Spirit, because it is cheth: L is Earth, green
and fertile, because Venus, the greenness, fertility, and earthiness
of things is the Lady of Libra, Lamed.
  In paragraph 7 we turn to the so-called Jetziratic attribution
of Pentagrammaton, that followed by Dr. Dee, and by the Hindus,
Tibetans, Chinese and Japanese.  Fire is the Foundation, the
central core, of things; above this forms a crust, tormented
from below, and upon this condenses the original steam. Around this
flows the air, created by Earth and Water through the action of
vegetation.
  Such is the globe; but all this is a mere strain in the aethyr,
{Alpha-Iota-Theta-Eta-Rho}.  Here is a new Pentagrammaton, presumably suitable
for another analysis of the elements; but after a different manner.
Alpha ({Alpha}) is Air; Rho ({Rho}) the Sun; these are the Spirit and the
Son of Christian theology.  In the midst is the Father, expressed
as Father-and-Mother.  I-H (Yod and He), Eta ({Eta}) being used
to express "the Mother" instead of Epsilon ({Epsilon}), to show that She
has been impregnated by the Spirit; it is the rough breathing and
not the soft.  The centre of all is Theta ({Theta}), which was originally
written as a point in a circle ({Sun}), the sublime  hieroglyph of the
Sun in the Macrocosm, and in the Microcosm of the Lingam
in conjunction with the Yoni.
  This word {Alpha-Iota-Theta-Eta-Rho} (Aethyr) is therefore a perfect hierogly
ph
of the Cosmos in terms of Gnostic Theology.
  The reader should consult La Messe et ses Mysteres, par Jean
'Marie de V .... (Paris et Nancy, 1844), for a complete
demonstration of the incorporation of the Solar and Phallic
Mysteries in Christianity.








                              [183]
                                  87

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Zeta}

                            MANDARIN-MEALS

    There is a dish of sharks' fins and of sea-slug, well set
      in birds' nests...oh!
    Also there is a souffle most exquisite of Chow-Chow.
    These did I devise.
    But I have never tasted anything to match the

                                 (?)

      which she gave me before She went away.
        March 22, 1912. E. V.






































                                [184]
                        COMMENTARY ({Pi-Zeta})

      This chapter is technically one of the Laylah chapters.
      It means that, however great may be one's own
    achievements the gifts from on high are still better.
      The Sigil is taken from a Gnostic talisman, and
    refers to the Sacrament.















































                                [185]
                                  88

             {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Eta}

                             GOLD BRICKS
    Teach us Your secret, Master! yap my Yahoos.
    Then for the hardness of their hearts, and for the
      softness of their heads, I taught them Magick.
    But...alas!
    Teach us Your real secret, Master! how to become
      invisible, how to acquire love, and oh! beyond all,
      how to make gold.
    But how much gold will you give me for the Secret
      of Infinite Riches?
    Then said the foremost and most foolish; Master, it
      is nothing; but here is an hundred thousand
      pounds.
    This did I deign to accept, and whispered in his ear
      this secret:
    A SUCKER IS BORN EVERY MINUTE.


































                                [186]
                        COMMENTARY ({Pi-Eta})

      The term "gold bricks" is borrowed from American
    finance.
      The chapter is a setting of an old story.
      A man advertises that he could tell anyone how to
    make four hundred a year certain, and would do so
    on receipt of a shilling.  To every sender he dispatched
    a post-card with these words: "Do as I do."
      The word "sucker" is borrowed from American
    finance.
      The moral of the chapter is, that it is no good trying
    to teach people who need to be taught.










































                                [187]
                                  89

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Pi-Theta}

                        UNPROFESSIONAL CONDUCT

    I am annoyed about the number 89.
    I shall avenge myself by writing nothing in this
      chapter.
    That, too, is wise; for since I am annoyed, I could
      not write even a reasonably decent lie.











































                                [188]
                       COMMENTARY ({Pi-Theta})

      Frater P. had been annoyed by a scurvy doctor, the
    number of whose house was 89.
      He shows that his mind was completely poisoned in
    respect of that number by his allowing himself to be
    annoyed.
      (But note that a good Qabalist cannot err.  "In Him
    all is right." 89 is Body-that which annoys-and
    the Angel of the Lord of Despair and Cruelty.
      Also "Silence" and "Shut Up".
      The four meanings completely describe the chapter.)










































                                [189]
                                  90

               {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Rho}

                              STARLIGHT

    Behold!  I have lived many years, and I have travelled
      in every land that is under the dominion of the
      Sun, and I have sailed the seas from pole to pole.
    Now do I lift up my voice and testify that all is
      vanity on earth, except the love of a good woman,
      and that good woman LAYLAH.  And I testify
      that in heaven all is vanity (for I have journeyed
      oft, and sojourned oft, in every heaven), except the
      love of OUR LADY BABALON.  And I testify
      that beyond heaven and earth is the love of OUR
      LADY NUIT.
    And seeing that I am old and well stricken in years,
      and that my natural forces fail, therefore do I rise
      up i my throne and call upon THE END.
    For I am youth eternal and force infinite.
    ANd at THE END is SHE that was LAYLAH, and
      BABALON, and NUIT, being...































                                [190]
                          COMMENTARY ({Rho})

    This chapter is a sort of final Confession of Faith.
    It is the unification of all symbols and all planes.
    The End is expressible.

















































                                [191]
                                  91

            {Kappa-Epsilon-Phi-Alpha-Lambda-Eta Rho-Alpha}

                              THE HEIKLE

    A. M. E. N.








                       COMMENTARY ({Rho-Alpha)

      The "Heikle" is to be distinguished from the
    "Huckle", which latter is defined in the late Sir W.S.
    Gilbert's "Prince Cherry-Top".
      A clear definition of the Heikle might have been
    obtained from Mr Oscar Eckenstein, 34 Greencroft
    Gardens, South Hampstead, London, N.W. (when
    this comment was written).
      But its general nature is that of a certain minute
    whiteness, appearing at the extreme end of great
    blackness.
      It is a good title for the last chapter of this book, and
    it also symbolises the eventual coming out into the light
    of his that has wandered long in the darkness.
      91 is the numberation of Amen.
      The chapter consists of an analysis of this word, but
    gives no indication as to the result of this analysis, as
    if to imply this: The final Mystery is always insoluble.
                                FINIS.
                            CORONAT OPUS.


















                                [192]
                      BOOKS BY ALEISTER CROWLEY


                     mentioned in the Commentary

    The Soldier and the Hunchback ! and ? The Eqx.
       I, i.
    Berashith.  Coll. Works, II, 233.
    The Vision and The Voice (Liber 418).  The Eqx.,
       I, v.  Reprint, Barstow, Cal., 1952, with Com-
       mentary.
    Liber VII (Liber Liberi vel Lapidis Lazuli).  Out of
       print; some reprints available.
    Liber Legis.  The Eqx., I, vii.
    The Book of Thoth (The Tarot).  London, 1944.
    AHA!  The Eqx., I, iii.
    The Temple of Solomon the King.  The Eqx.
    Household Gods.  Pallanza, 1912.
    Liber LXI vel Causae.  The Eqx., III, i.
    Liber 500.  Unpublished.
    The World's Tragedy.  Paris, 1910.
    The Scorpion.  The Eqx., I, vi.
    The God-Eater.  London, 1903.
    Liber XVI.  The Eqx., I, vi.
    777, London 1909.  Reprint with Commentary,
        London, 1955.
    Liber LXV.  The Eqx., III, i.
    Liber O (Liber VI).  The Eqx., I, ii.
    Konx Om Pax.  London, 1907.
    Book 4, part III, same as Magick in Theory and
       Practice.  Paris, 1929.























                                [193]
                          PRO AND CON TENTS


    (dots?)
     1. The Sabbath of the Goat.
     2. The Cry of the Hawk.
     3. The Oyster.
     4. Peaches.
     5. The battle of the Ants.
     6. Caviar.
     7. The Dinosaurs.
     8. Steeped Horsehair.
     9. The Branks.
    10. Windlestraws.
    11. The Glow-Worm.
    12. The Dragon-Flies.
    13. Pilgrim-Talk.
    14. Onion-Peelings.
    15. The Gun-Barrel.
    16. The Stag-Beetle.
    17. The Swan.
    18. Dewdrops.
    19. The Leopard and the Deer.
    20. Samson.
    21. The Blind Webster.
    22. The Despot.
    23. Skidoo!
    24. The Hawk and the blindworm.
    25. THE STAR RUBY.
    26. The Elephant and the Tortoise.
    27. The Sorcerer.
    28. The Pole-Star.
    29. The Southern Cross.
    30. John-a-Dreams.




















                                [194]
    31. The Garotte.
    32. The Mountaineer.
    33. BAPHOMET.
    34. THe Smoking Dog.
    35. Venus of Milo.
    36. THE STAR SAPPHIRE.
    37. Dragons.
    38. Lambskin.
    39. The Looby.
    40. The HIMOG.
    41. Corn Beef Hash.
    42. Dust-Devils.
    43. Mulberry Tops.
    44. THE MASS OF THE PHOENIX.
    45. Chinese Music.
    46. Buttons and Rosettes.
    47. Windmill-Words.
    48. Mome Raths.
    49. WARATAH-BLOSSOMS.
    50. The Vigil of St. Hubert.
    51. Terrier Work.
    52. The Bull-Baiting.
    53. The Dowser.
    54. Eaves-Droppings.
    55. The Drooping Sunflower.
    56. Trouble with Twins.
    57. The Duck-Billed Platypus.
    58. Haggai-Howlings.
    59. The Tailess Monkey.
    60. The Wound of Amfortas.
    61. The Fool's Knot.
    62. Twig?
    63. Margery Daw.
    64. Constancy.
    65. Sic Transeat ---
    66. The Praying Mantis.
    67. Sodom-Apples.
    68. Manna.
















                                [195]
    69. The Way to Succeed-and the Way to Suck
         Eggs!
    70. Broomstick-Babblings.
    71. King's College Chapel.
    72. Hashed Pheasant.
    73. The Devil, the Ostrich, and the Orphan Child.
    74. Carey Street.
    75. Plover's Eggs.
    76. Phaeton.
    77. THE SUBLIME AND SUPREME SEPTEN-
         ARY IN ITS MATURE MAGICAL MANI-
         FESTATION THROUGH MATTER: AS IT
         IS WRITTEN: AN HE-GOAT ALSO.
    78. Wheel and-Woa!
    79. The Bal bullier.
    80. Blackthorn.
    81. Louis Lingg.
    82. Bortsch: also Imperial Purple (and A PUNIC WAR).
    83. The Blind Pig.
    84. The Avalanche.
    85. Borborygmi.
    86. TAT.
    87. Mandarin-Meals.
    88. Gold Bricks.
    89. Unprofessional Conduct.
    90. Starlight.
    91. The Heikle.




Liber 335 - ADONIS an allegory

AN ALLEGORY
BY
ALEISTER CROWLEY Inscribed to Adonis.

PERSONS OF THE ALLEGORY
THE KING OF BABYLON, tributary to the King of Greece
HERMES, a Greek Physician
THE LADY PSYCHE
THE COUNT ADONIS, at first known as the Lord Esarhaddon
THE LADY ASTARTE
The Warriors of the King of Babylon
HANUMAN, Servant to Hermes
CHARIS,+
ELPIS, + Attendants on Psyche
PISTIS,+
Three Aged Women
Handmaidens and Slaves of Astarte
ADONIS
ACT I

SCENE I:

The hanging gardens of Babylon. R., the House of the Lady Astarte; L., a gateway; C., a broad lawn enriched with clustered flowers and sculptures. The sun is nigh his setting. On a couch under the wall of the city reposes the Lord Esarhaddon, fanned by two slaves, a negro boy and a fair Kabyle girl, clad in yellow and blue, the boy’s robes being covered with a veil of silver, the girl’s with a veil of gold.
They are singing to him softly:
THE BOY	All crimson-veined is Tigris’ flood;
The sun has stained his mouth with blood.
THE GIRL	Orange and green his standards sweep.
THE BOY	His minions keen.
THE GIRL	His maidens weep
THE BOY	But thou, Lord, thou! The hour is nigh
 	When from the prow of luxury
Shall step the death of all men’s hearts,
She whose live breath, a dagger’s darts,
A viper’s vice, an adder’s grip,
A cockatrice ‘twixt lip and lip,
She whose black eyes are suns to shower 
Love’s litanies from hour to hour,
Whose limbs are scythes like Death’s of whom
The body writhes, a lotus-bloom
Swayed by the wind of live, a crime
Too sweetly sinned, the queen of time,
The lady of heaven, to whom the stars,
Seven by seven, from their bars
Lean and do worship -- even she
Who hath given all her sweet self to thee,
The Lady Astarte!
THE GIRL	Peace, O peace!
A swan, she sails through ecstasies
Of air and marble and flowers, she sways
As the full moon through midnight’s haze
Of gauze -- her body is like a dove
And a snake, and live, and death, and love!
THE BOY	Even as the twilight so is she,
Half seem, half subtly apprehended,
Ethereally and bodily.
The soul incarnate, the body transcended!
THE GIRL	Aching, aching passionately,
Insufferably, utterly splendid!
THE BOY	Her lips make pale the setting sun!
THE GIRL	Her body blackens Babylon!
THE BOY	Her eyes turn midnight’s murk to grey!
THE GIRL	Her breasts make midnight of the day!
THE BOY	About her, suave and subtle, swims
The musk and madness of her limbs!
THE GIRL	Her mouth is magic like the moon’s.
THE BOY	Her breath is bliss!
THE GIRL	Her steps are swoons!
[ENTER ASTARTE, with her five handmaidens.
THE BOY	Away, away!
THE GIRL	With heart’s accord,
To leave his lady to our lord.
{They go out.
THE BOY	Let him forget our service done
Of palm-leaves waved, that never tires,
In his enchanted Babylon
Of infinite desires!
[ASTARTE kneels at the foot of the couch, and taking 
the feet of Esarhaddon in her hands, covers them with kisses.
ASTARTE	Nay, never wake! unless to catch my neck
And break me up with kisses -- never sleep,
Unless to dream new pains impossible
To waking!
Girls! with more than dream’s address,
Wake him with perfume till he smile, with strokes
Softer than moonbeams till he turn, and sigh,
With five slow drops of wine between his lips
Until his heart heave, with young thrills of song
Until his eyelids open, and the first
And fairest of ye greet him like a flower,
So that awakened he may break from you and turn to me who am all these in one.

IST MAIDEN	Here is the wealth
Of all amber and musk,
Secreted by stealth
In the domes of the dusk!
2ND MAIDEN	Here the caress
Of a cheek -- let it stir
The first liens of liesse
Not to me -- but to her!
3RD MAIDEN	Here the quintessence
Of dream and delight,
Evoking the presence
Of savour to sight!
4TH MAIDEN	List to the trill
And the ripple and roll
Of a tune that may thrill
Thee through sense to the soul!
5TH MAIDEN	Look on the fairest,
The masterless maid!
Ere thine eye thou unbarest,
I flicker, I fade.
All. Wake! as her garland is tossed in the air
When the nymph meets Apollo, our forehead is bare.
We divide, we disperse, we dislimn, we dissever,
For we are but now, and our lady for ever!

[They go out.
ESARHADDON	I dreamed of thee!
Dreams beyond form and name!
It was a chain of ages, and a flash
Of lightning -- which thou wilt -- since -- Oh I see
Nothing, feel nothing, and am nothing -- ash
Of the universe burnt through!
ASTARTE	And I the flame!
ESARHADDON	Wreathing and roaring for an ageless aeon,
Wrapping the world, spurning the empyrean,
Drowning with dark despotic imminence
All life and light, annihilating sense --
I have been sealed and silent in the womb
Of nothingness to burst, a babe’s bold bloom,
Into the upper aethyr of thine eyes.
Oh! one grave glance enkindles Paradise,
One sparkle sets me on the throne above,
Mine orb the world.
ASTARTE	Nay, stir not yet. Let love
Breathe like the zephyr on the unmoved deep,
Sigh to awakening from its rosy sleep;
Let the stars fade, and all the east grow grey
And tender, ere the first faint rose of day
Flush it. Awhile! Awhile! There’s crimson bars
Enough to blot the noblest of the stars,
And bow for adoration ere the rim
Start like God’s spear to ware the world of Him!
Softly!
ESARHADDON	But kiss me!
ASTARTE	With an eyelash first!
ESARHADDON	Treasure and torture!
ASTARTE	Tantalising thirst
Makes the draught more delicions. Heaven were worth
Little without the purgatory, earth!
ESARHADDON	You make earth heaven.
ASTARTE	And heaven hell. To choose thee
Is to interpret misery "To lose thee."
ESARHADDON	Ay! death end all if it must end thy kiss!
ASTARTE	And death be all if it confirm life’s bliss!
ESARHADDON	And death come soon if death fill life’s endeavour!
ASTARTE	and if it spill life’s vintage, death come never!
ESARHADDON	The sun sets. Bathe me in the rain of gold!
ASTARTE	These pearls that decked it shimmering star-cold
Fall, and my hair falls, wreathes an aureole.
Even as thy love encompasses my soul!
ESARHADDON	I am blinded; I am bruised; I am stung.
Each thread
Hisses.
ASTARTE	There’s life there for a thousand dead!
ESARHADDON	And death there for a million!
ASTARTE	Even so.
Life, death, new life, a web spun soft and slow
by love, the spider, in these palaces
That taketh hold.
ESARHADDON	Take hold.
ASTARTE	Keen joyaunces
Mix with the multitudinous murmurings,
And all the kisses sharpen into stings.
Nay! shall my mouth take hold? Beware! Once fain,
How shall it ever leave thy mouth again?
ESARHADDON	Why should it?
ASTARTE	Is not sleep our master yet?
ESARHADDON	Why must we think when wisdom would forget?
ASTARTE	Lest we in turn forget to fill the hour.
ESARHADDON	The pensive been leaves honey in the flower.
ASTARTE	Now the sun’s rim is dipped. And thus I dip
My gold to the horizon of thy lip.
ESARHADDON	Ah! ...
ASTARTE	There’s no liquor, none, within the cup.
ESARHADDON	Nay, draw not back; nay, then, but lift me up.
I would the cup were molten too; I’d drain
Its blasting agony.
ASTARTE	In vain.
ESARHADDON	In vain?
Nay, let the drinker and the draught in one
Blaze up at last, and burn down Babylon!
ASTARTE	All but the garden, and our bed, and -- see!
The false full moon that comes to rival me.
ESARHADDON	She comes to lamp our love.
[A chime of bells without.
ASTARTE	I’ll tire my hair.
The banquet waits. Girls, follow me.
[They go out, leaving ESARHADDON.
ESARHADDON	How fair
And full she sweeps, the buoyant barge upon
The gilded curves of Tigris. She’s the swan
That drew the gods to gaze, the fawn that called
Their passion to his glades of emerald,
The maid that maddened Mithras, the quick quiver
Of reeds that drew Oannes from the river! ...
She is gone. The garden is a wilderness.
Oh for the banquet of the lioness, 
the rich astounding wines, the kindling meats,
The music and the dancers! Fiery seats
Of empire of the archangels, let your wings
Ramp through the empyrean! Lords and Kings
Of the Gods, descend and serve us, as we spurn
And trample life, fill death’s sardonyx urn
With loves immortal -- how shall I endure
This moment’s patience? Ah, she comes, be sure!
Her foot flits on the marble. ... Open, gate!
[The gate, not of the house but of the garden, opens. The Lady Psyche appears. She is clothed in deep purple, as mourning, and her hair is bound with a fillet of cypress and acacia. She is attended by three maidens and three aged women.
 	What tedious guest arrives?
PSYCHE	white hour of fate!
I have found him!
ESARHADDON	Who is this? ... Fair lady, pardon.
You seek the mistress of the garden?
PSYCHE	I thought I had found the lord I seek.
Your pardon, lord. These eyes are weary and weak
With tears and my vain search.
ESARHADDON	Whom seek you then?
PSYCHE	My husband -- my sole miracle of men,
The Count Adonis.
[ESARHADDON staggers and falls on the couch.
PSYCHE	You know of him?
ESARHADDON	No.
I cannot tell what struck me so.
I never heard the name.
PSYCHE	Indeed, your eyes
Are liker his than wedded dragon-flies!
Your brows are his, your mouth is his --
Yet all’s awry!
ESARHADDON	May be it is!
PSYCHE	Oh, pardon. Mine is but a mad girl’s glance
Adonis is this soul’s inheritance.
All else is madness.
ESARHADDON	Mad! Mad! Mad! Mad! Mad!
Why say you this? Who are you? Sad? Glad?
Bad?
Bad! Bad! Speak, speak! Bleak peak of mystery?
Weak cheek of modesty?
PSYCHE	Oh, pardon me!
I did not mean to move you thus.
ESARHADDON	I am stirred
Too easily. You used a shameful word!
PSYCHE	Accept my sorrow. I am all alone
In this black night. My heart is stone,
My limbs are lead, mine eyes accurst,
My throat a hell of thirst. ...
My husband -- they suppose him dead. ...
They made me wear these weeds. Could I
In my heart credit half they said,
Not these funereal robes should wrap me round,
But the white crements of a corpse, and high
Upon a pyre of sandal and ebony,
Should dare through flame the inequitable profound!
But only these of all mine household come
In faith and hope and love so far from home,
And these three others joined me -- why, who knows?
But thou, lord, in whose face his likeness shows --
At the first glance -- for now, i’faith, ’tis gone! --
Hast thou dwelt away here in Babylon?
ESARHADDON	Now must I laugh -- forgive me in your sorrow!
My life’s not yesterday and not to-morrow.
I live; I know no more.
PSYCHE	How so?
ESARHADDON	I fear
I know but this, that I’m a stranger here.
The call me the Lord Esarhaddon -- name
Borrowed or guessed, I cannot tell! I came
Whence I know not -- some malady
Destroyed my memory.
PSYCHE	Oh, were you he! But yet I see you are not.
Had you no tokens from the life forgot?
ESARHADDON	Nay, I came naked into Babylon.
I live the starlight and sleep through the sun.
I am happy in love, I am rich, I eat and drink,
I gather goods, I laugh, I never think.
Know me the prince of perfect pleasure!
PSYCHE	Yet
Is there not something that you would forget?
some fear that chills you? While you talk to me
I see you glance behind you fearfully.
ESARHADDON	(with furtive fear amounting to horror)
You see the Shadow?
PSYCHE	No: slim shadows stretch
From yonder moon, and woo the world, and tech 
With their fantastic melancholy grotesques
The earth -- man’s destiny in arabesques.
ESARHADDON	You are blind! You are mad! See where he stands!
It is the King of Babylon,
Reeking daggers in his hands --
And black blood oozes, oozes, throbs and dips
From his eyes and nostrils to his lips
That he sucks, gnashing his fangs. Upon
His head is a crown of skulls, and monkeys new
And gibber and mop about him. Skew! Spew! Ugh!
Hu! Now! Now! Mow! they go -- cannot you hear them?
What? have you courage to go near them?
PSYCHE	Nothing is there.
ESARHADDON	Oh, but he has the haed
Of a boar, the black boar Night! All dead, dead, dead,
The eyes of girls that once were beautiful
Hang round his neck. Whack! Crack! he slaps a skull
For a drum -- Smack! Flack! Thwack! Back, I’ll not attack.
Quack! Quack! there’s ducks and devils on his back.
Keep him away. You want a man, you say?
Well, there’s a king for you to-day.
Go, kiss him! Slobber over him! HIs ribs
Should be readily tickled. Wah! Wah! Wah! she jibs.
Ugh! there he came too close. I’ll bite the dust;
I’ll lick the slime of Babylon. Great lust,
Great god, great devil, gar-gra-gra-gra! Space me! 
Take this wench, though she were the womb that bare me!
See! Did I tell you, he’s the King, the King,
The King of Terrors. See me grovelling!
Yah! Ha!
PSYCHE	there’s nothing there. Are you a man
To craze at naught?
ESARHADDON	Immitigable ban!
Immitigable, pitiful, profound --
Ban, can, fan, ran, and pan is underground,
Round, bound, sound -- Oh have pity! ...
Who art thou
Whose coming thus unmans me? Not till now
Saw I, or felt I, or heard I, the King
So mumbling near; black blood’s on everything.
Boo! Scow! Be off! Out! Vanish! Fly! Begone!
Out! Off! Out! Off! I’m King of Babylon.
Oh no! Thy pardon. Spare me! ’Tis as a slip
O’ th’ lip. Now flip! rip! bawdy harlot, skip!
[He threatens her. She trembles, but holds her ground.
 	Strip, yes, I’ll strip you naked, strip your flesh
In strips with my lips, gnaw your bones like a dog.
Off, sow! Off, grumpet! Strumpet! Scum-pit! Flails to thresh
Your body! Clubs to mash your face in! Knives
To cut away your cat’s nine lives!
ASTARTE	(Entering hastily.) What’s this? Who are
you? What right have you to come
And make this havoc in the home?
Can you not see what wreck your tempest makes? 
Begone! I have a fiery flight of snakes
To lash you hence!
PSYCHE	It may be mine’s the right.
It may be you are nothing in my sight.
It may be I have found my lord at last;
And you -- his concubine? May be out-cast.
This is the sure thing, that I chase thee. Slaves!
Hither your whips! that are more black with blood
Of such as this thing than your skins with kisses
Of your sun’s frenzy.
[The slaves run up.
PSYCHE	Thou vain woman! Now
I know him, lost, wrecked, mad, but mine, but mine,
Indissolubly dowered with me, my husband,
The Count Adonis!
ESARHADDON	Ah!
[He falls, but into the arms of ASTARTE.
ASTARTE	Ho! guard us now
And lash this thing from the garden!
[The slaves form in line between PSYCHE and the others.
PSYCHE	Adonis!
ESARHADDON	Ah!
Astarte, there’s some sorcery abroad.
ASTARTE	The spell is broken, dear my lord.
There is a wall of ebony and steel
About us.
ESARHADDON	What then do I feel
When that name sounds?
ASTARTE	A trick of mind.
Things broken up and left behind
Keep roots to plague us when we least expect them. 
The wise -- and thou art wise -- let naught affect them.
Let us to feast!
ESARHADDON	Ah no! I tremble still,
Despite my reason and despite my will.
Let me lie with thee here awhile, and dream
Upon thine eyes beneath the moon,
Whose slanted beam
Lights up thy face, that sends its swoon
Of languour and hunger through
The infinite space that severs two
So long as they cannot rise above
Into the unity of love.
However close lock hands and feet,
One lone moment may they meet;
When in the one pang that runs level
With death and birth, the royal revel,
The lover and the loved adore
The thing that is, when they are not.
ASTARTE	No more!
Bury thy face between these hills that threat
The heaven, their rosy spears (the gods that fret)
Tipping thine ears, and with my hair I’ll hide thee;
And these mine handmaidens shall stand beside thee,
And mix their nightingale with lion
Of the guard that chorus and clash iron,
While as a river laps its banks
My fingertips caress thy flanks!
(Chorus.)
MEN	Under the sun there is none, there is none
That hath heard such a word as our lord hath begun.
WOMEN	Under the moon such a tune, such a tune
As his thought hath half caught in this heaven of June.
MEN	Never hath night such a light, such a rite!
WOMEN	Never had day such a ray, such a sway!
MEN	Never had man, since began the earth’s plan,
Such a bliss, such a kiss, such a woman as this!
WOMEN	Never had maid since God bade be arrayed
Earth’s bowers with his flowers, such a man to her powers!
MEN	Mix in the measure,
Black grape and white cherry!
A passion, a pleasure,
A torment, a treasure,
You to be mournful an we to be merry!
WOMEN	We shall be solemn
And grave and alluring,
You be the column
Upstanding, enduring.
We be the ivy and vine
To entwine --
My mouth on your mouth, and your mouth on mine!
MEN	Burnish our blades
With your veils,
Merry maids!
WOMEN	Sever their cords
With the scales
Of your swords!
MEN	As a whirlwind that licks up a leaf
Let us bear
You, an aureate sheaf
Adrift in the air!
WOMEN	As a butterfly hovers and flits,
Let us guide
To bewilder your wits
Bewitched by a bride!
MEN	Now, as the stars shall
Encircle the moon,
Our ranks let us marshal
In time and in tune!
WOMEN	Leading our lady and lord
To the feast,
Ere the night be abroad,
The black rose of the east!
MEN AND WOMEN	Arise! arise! the feast is spread,
The wine is poured; the singers wait
Eager to lure and lull; the dancers tread
Impatient to invoke the lords of Fate.
Arise, arise! the feast delayed delays
The radiant raptures that must crown its ways.
ASTARTE	come now. Ah! still the pallor clings?
Wine will redeem the roses. Stretch the strings
Of thy slack heart! Still trembling? Lean on me!
This shoulder could hold up eternity.
[They go forth to the banquet.
SCENE II. 
THE HALL OF THE PALACE OF ASTARTE.
Onyx, alabaster, porphyry and malachite are the pillars; and the floor of mosaic. In the high seat is ASTARTE, on her right HERMES, A Greek physician. He is a slight, old man, with piercing eyes and every mark of agility and vigour. His dress is that of a Babhlonish physican.
HERMES	And now, polite preliminaries past,
Tell me, dear lady, what the little trouble is!
ASTARTE	It was quite sudden.
HERMES	Good; not like to last.
It bursts, such malady a brittle bubble is!
How is the pulse? Allow me!
ASTARTE	Not for me
Your skill. My husband’s lost his memory.
HERMES	Yet he remembers you?
ASTARTE	O quite, of course!
HERMES	Let it alone! don’t flog the willing horse!
Were I to cure him by my magic spells,
The odds are he’d remember someone else!
ASTARTE	Ah, but -- a month ago -- a woman came --
HERMES	Cool -- warm -- hot -- now we’re getting near the flame!
ASTARTE	And what she said or did who knows?
HERMES	These men!
ASTARTE	Yes! But he’s never been the same since then!
I’ve taken endless trouble not to fret him,
Done everything I could to please and pet him,
And now this wretched woman has upset him!
HERMES	Was he distressed much at the time?
ASTARTE	Distressed?
Mad as an elephant in spring!
HERMES. I guessed
It. Think he took a fancy to the girl?
ASTARTE	Well, honestly, I don’t. My mind’s a whirl
With worry. She’s a flimsy creature, rags
Of sentiment, and tears, and worn-out tags
Of wisdom.
HERMES	Yes, you’ve nothing much to fear
While you appear as ... what you do appear.
ASTARTE	Well, there they stood, crying like butchered swine,
She and her maids. It seems she’s lost her man,
Can’t get another, wanted to claim mine.
I put a stopper on the pretty plan.
But ever since -- well, I can’t say what’s wrong,
But something’s wrong.
HERMES	Yes; yes. Now is it long?
ASTARTE	About a month.
HERMES	What physic have you tried?
ASTARTE	The usual things; young vipers skinned and dried
And chopped with rose-leaves; cow’s hoof stewed in dung,
One pilule four times daily, on the tongue;
Lark’s brains in urine after every meal,
With just a touch of salt and orange-peel.
HERMES	And yet he is no better?
ASTARTE	NOt a whit. 
Oh yes, though, not I come to think of it,
Snails pounded up and taken after food
Did seem to do some temporary good.
Of course we kept him on a doubled diet.
HERMES	Have you tried change of air, and rest, and quiet?
ASTARTE	No; what a strange idea!
HERMES	As strange as new.
Yet there seems somehow something in it too!
Still, here’s where silence is worth seven speeches --
I might get strangled by my brother leeches.
Now, are you sure you want him cured?
ASTARTE	Why, yes,
Why should I call you in?
HERMES	But none the less
It might be awkward his remembering more.
ASTARTE	I simply want him as he was before.
HERMES	And if it should turn out, as I suspect,
He was this woman’s husband.
ASTARTE	Then select
A -- you know -- something suitable -- to put her
Where she won’t worry me, or want a suitor.
HERMES	I understand you; but I’m old; your beauty
Might fail to make me careless of my duty.
ASTARTE	I’ll take the risk.
HERMES	Then let me see the victim;
If bound, we’ll loosen him; if loose, constrict him.
There, madam, in one phrase from heart to heart,
Lies the whole mystery of the healer’s art!
Where is the pathic?
ASTARTE	Hush! in Babylon
We say "the patient."
HERMES	Yes?
ASTARTE	It’s often one.
for Babylonish is so quaint a tongue
One often goes too right by going wrong!
I’ll call him from the garden.
[Goes out.	 
HERMES	(alone). Is there need
To see the man? He’s simply off his feed.
A child could see the way to make him hearty:
More exercise, less food -- and less Astarte!
[Enter ESARHADDON.	 
 	I greet your lordship.
ESARHADDON	Greeting, sir!
HERMES	And so
We’re not as healthy as a month ago?
The pulse? Allow me! Ah! Tut! Tut! Not bad.
The tongue? Thanks! Kindly tell me what you had
For dinner.
ESARHADDON	Nothing: practically nothing.
I seem to look on food with utter loathing.
HERMES	Just so; but you contrived to peck a bit?
ESARHADDON	Only a dozen quails upon the spit,
A little sturgeon cooked with oysters, wine,
Mushrooms and crayfish. ...
HERMES	That is not to dine.
ESARHADDON	Well, after that I toyed with pheasant pasty,
Sliced -- you know how -- with pineapple.
HERMES	Eat hasty?
ESARHADDON	No, not at all. Well, then a sucking-pig
Stuffed with grape, olive, cucumber, peach, fig,
And lemon. Then I trifled with a curry ----
HERMES	You’re sure you didn’t eat it in a hurry?
ESARHADDON	Quite sure. The curry was simplicity
Itself -- plain prawns. Then there was -- let me see! --
A dish of fruit, then a kid roasted whole,
Some venison fried with goose-liver, a roll
Of very tender spicy well-cooked veal
Done up with honey, olive oil, and meal,
Some sweets, but only three or four, and those
I hardly touched.
HERMES	But why now?
ESARHADDON	I suppose
I wasn’t hungry.
HERMES	Diagnosis right;
A simple case of loss of appetite!
Surely they tempted you with something else.
ESARHADDON	A few live lobsters broiled within their shells.
I ate two only.
HERMES	That explains the tongue.
Now let me listen!
Sound in heart and lung.
(And I should think so!) ’Twas a sage that sung:
"Whom the Gods love, love lobsters; they die young."
And yet greater sage sublimely said:
"Look not upon the lobster when it’s red!"
ESARHADDON	A Babylonish bard has said the same
Of wine.
HERMES	Ah, wine now? Out with it! Die game!
ESARHADDON	By fin and tail of great Oannes, I Am the mere model of sobriety.
HERMES	What did you drink for dinner?
 	 
ESARHADDON	Scarce a drop At any time -- four flagons, there I stop. With just a flask of barley-wine to top.
HERMES	Just so becomes a nobleman of sense Whose moderation errs toward abstinence.
ESARHADDON	Abstinence! That’s the word I couldn’t think of! I’m an abstainer. Everything I drink of Is consecrated by a melancholic Priest.
HERMES	Which prevents it being alcoholic!
ESARHADDON	Sir, you appear to understand my case As no one else has done. Appalling face These quack have that crowd Babylon. Your fee? Though none can pay the service done to me.
HERMES	One moment. What about your memory? Well, never mind, just follow my advice; That will come back before you say "knife" twice. First, fire your slaves, the rogues that thieve and laze: A slave’s worse than two masters now-a-days. Next, live on nothing but boiled beans and ripe, With once a week a melon -- when they’re ripe. Next, sent the Lady Astarte up the river; She looks to me to have a touch of liver. And you must teach your muscles how to harden, So stay at home, and labour in the garden!
ESARHADDON	You damned insulting blackguard! Charlatan! Quack! Trickster! Scoundrel! Cheating medicine-man! You ordure-tasting privy-sniffing rogue, You think because your humbug is thevogue You can beard me?
HERMES	I’ll tell you just one thing. Disobey me, and -- trouble with the King!
ESARHADDON	Ring-a-ling-ting! Ping! Spring! HERMES. That’s cooked his goose. I’ll tell Astarte, though it’s not much use. [He goes out. It’s only one more of life’s little curses -- The best of women make the worst of nurses!
SCENE III	THE CONSULTING-ROOM OF HERMES.
It has two parts, the first filled with stuffed crocodiles, snakes, astrolabes, skeletons, lamps of strange shape, vast rolls of papyri, vases containing such objects as a foetus, a mummied child, a six-legged sheep. Hands (obviously those of criminals) have been painted with phosphorus, and give light. Sculptures of winged bulls and bricks inscribed with arrow-head characters are ranged about the walls. A chain of elephant’s bones covered with its hide contains the doctor, who is dressed as before in a long black robe covered with mysterious characters. On his head is a high conical cap of black silk dotted with gold stars. In his right hand is a wand of human teeth strung together, in his left a "book" of square palm-l;eaves bound in silver. at the back of the room is a black curtain completely veiling its second portion. This curtain is covered with cabalistic characters and terrifying images in white. [Enter the servant of HERMES, a negro uglier than an ape. He is immensely long and lean; his body hangs forward, so that his arms nearly touch the ground. He is clad in a tightly fitting suit of scarlet, and wears a scarlet skull-cap. he makes deep obeisance.]
HERMES	Speak, Hanuman!
HANUMAN	A lady. [HERMES nods gravely. Exit HANUMAN.
HERMES	Abaoth! Abraxas! Pur! Put! Aeou! Thoth! [Enter the LADY PSYCHE with one attendant. Ee! Oo! Uu! Iao Sabaoth! Dogs of Hell! Mumble spell! Up! Up! Up! Sup! Sup! Sup! U! Aoth! Abaoth! Abraoth! Sabaoth! Livid, loath, Obey the oath! Ah! [He shuts the book with a snap, You have come to me because you are crossed In love.
PSYCHE	Most true, sir!
HERMES	Ah! you’re Greek!
PSYCHE	As you yourself,sir.
HERMES	Then I’ve lost My pains. I need not fear to speak. I took you for a fool. Ho! veil, divide! [HANUMAN appears and lays his hand on a cord. Things are much pleasanter the other side. [The doctor throws off his cloak and cap, his straggling white hair and long pointed beard, appearing as a youth dressed fashionably; at the same time the curtain pulled back shows a room furnished with the luxury of a man of the world. A low balcony of marble at the back gives a view of the city, and of the Tigris winding far into the distance, where dim blue mountains rim the horizon.] [The doctor conducts his client to a lounge, where they sit.
HERMES	Bring the old Chian, Hanuman! [The negro goes to obey. This joke Is the accepted way of scaring folk; And if they’re scared, they may find conficence Which is half cure. Most people have no sense. If only they would sweat, and wash, eat slow, Drink less, think more, the leech would starve or go. But they prefer debauchery, disease, Clysters, drugs, philtres, filth, and paying fees! Now then, to business! PSYCHE. Tell me how you guessed It was my heart that found itself distressed!
HERMES	I always sing a woman just that song; In twenty years I’ve never once been wrong. Seeing me thus marvellously wise, Veneration follows on surprise: Sometime they will do what I advise!
PSYCHE	I see. You have real knowledge.
HERMES	Not to be learnt at college!
PSYCHE	Good; you’re my man. I am come from Greece, Were the Gods live and love us, sorrowing For my lost husband. I have found him here, But with his memory gone, his mind distraught, Living in luxury with a courtesan (I could forgive him that if he knew me), Filled with a blind unreasoning fear of what Who knows? He’s haunted by a spectre king.
HERMES	Physicians must know everything: Half the night burn learning’s candle, Half the day devote to scandal. Here’s the mischief of the matter That I learn most from the latter! Yesterday I paid a visit To the fair ... Astarte, is it? Saw the kitchen and the closet, Deduced diet from deposit, Saw where silkworm joined with swan To make a bed to sleep upon, Saw the crowd of cringing knaves That have made their masters slaves, Saw Astarte -- diagnosed What had made him see a ghost!
PSYCHE	Can you cure him?
HERMES	In my hurry (And a not unnatural worry At the name of lobster curry) I so far forgot my duty As to mention to the beauty What ... well! here’s the long and short of it! Just exactly what I thought of it. Tempests, by Oannes’ fin!
PSYCHE	Sorry that he’d called you in?
HERMES	So much so that I’d a doubt If he wouldn’t call me out!
PSYCHE	Then he will not hear your counsel?
HERMES	No; I bade him live on groundsel; But the little social friction Interfered with the prescription.
PSYCHE	There’s no hope, then?
HERMES	Lend an ear! We may rule him by his fear! Somehow we may yet contrive That he see the King, and live! Have you influence?
PSYCHE	At Court? Plenty, in the last resort. Letters from his suzerain!
HERMES	You are high in favour then?
PSYCHE	Ay, that needs not to be sworn; I am his own daughter born.
HERMES	In thy blood the spark divine Of Olympus?
PSYCHE	Even in mine!
HERMES	Hark, then! At the Hour of Fears When the lordly Lion rears In mid-heaven his bulk of bane Violently vivid, shakes his mane Majestical, and Snake and Bull Lamp the horizon, and the full Fire of the moon tops heaven, and spurs The stars, while Mars ruddily burns, And Venus glows, and Jupiter Ramps through the sky astride of her, Then, unattended, let the king Press on the little secret spring That guards the garden, and entering Lay once his hand upon him, even While in the white arms of his heaven He swoons to sleep. That dreadful summons From the wild witchery his woman’s. That shaft of shattering truth shall splinter The pine of his soul’s winter. Then do thou following cry once His name; as from eclipse the sun’s Supernal splendour springs, his sight Shall leap to light.
PSYCHE	Shall leap to light! Master, this wisdom how repay?
HERMES	I am sworn unto thy father -- Nay! Weep not and kneel not! See, mine art [The two other handmaidens are seen standing by their fellow.] Hath wrought such wonder in thine heart That -- look!
PSYCHE	Ah! Pistis, Elpis! how Are you here? You were not with me now! You fled me. Charis only came Through those dark dreams.
HERMES	Farewell! Proclaim For my reward my art’s success. More than yourself need happiness.
PSYCHE	Farewell and prosper greatly! [She goes out with her maidens.
HERMES	And thou, live high and stately In gory and gree tenfold That which thou hadst of old! [He draws the curtain.
SCENE IV:	THE ANTECHAMBER OF THE KING’S PALACE.
It is a vast hall of black marble. At the corners four fountains play in basins of coloured marble. At the back a narrow door pillared by vast man-bulls in white marble. In mid-stage the LADY PSYCHE, seated on the ground, her long hair unloosed, her robe of shining silver, mourns. With her are the three handmaidens bowed and mourning at front of the stage R., C., and L. the aged women are grouped in front of stage C., on the steps which lead to the hall. No light comes save through the roves of the LADY PSYCHE from the jewels that adorn her. Their glimmer is, however, such as to fill the hall with moony radiance, misty dim, and lost in the vastness of the building. PSYCHE. Silence grows hateful; hollow is mine heart Here in the fateful hall; I wait apart. Dimmer, still dimmer darkness veils my sight; There is no glimmer heralding the light. I, the King’s daughter, am but serf and thrall Where Time hath wrought her cobweb in the hall. this blood avails not; where’s the signet ring Whose pussiance fails not to arouse the King? Heir of his heart, I am uncrowned; then, one that hath no art or craft in Babylon. I left my home and found a vassal’s house -- This lampless dome of death, vertiginous! O for the foam of billows that carouse About the crag-set columns! for the breeze That fans their flagging Caryatides! For the gemmed vestibule, the porch of pearl, The bowers of rest, the silences that furl Their wings upon mine amethystine chamber Whose lions shone with emerald and amber! O for the throne whereon my father’s awe, Lofty and lone, lets liberty love law! All justice wrought, its sword the healer’s knife! All mercy, not less logical than life! Alas! I wait a widowed suppliant Betrayed to fate, blind trampling elephant. I wait and mourn. Will not the dust disclose The Unicorn, the Unicorn that goes About the gardens of these halls of Spring, First of the wardens that defend the King? Wilt thou not bring me to the Unicorn? [The Unicorn passes over. He has the swiftness of the horse, the slimness of the deer, the whiteness of the swan, the horn of the narwhal. He couches upon the right side of the LADY PSYCHE.] Hail! thou that holdest thine appointed station, Lordliest and boldest of his habitation, Silence that foldest over its creation! [The Lion passes over. He is redder than the setting sun. He couches upon the left side of the LADY PSYCHE.] Hail! thou that art his ward and warrior, The brazen heart, the iron pulse of war! Up start, up start! and set thyself to roar! [The Peacock passes over. This peacock is so great that his fan, as he spreads it on couching before the face of the LADY PSYCHE, fills the whole of the hall.] Hail! glory and light his majesty that hideth, Pride and delight whereon his image rideth, While in thick night and darkness he abideth! [The stage now darkens. Even the light shed by the jewels of the LADY PSYCHE is extinguished. then, from the gate of the Palace between the man-bulls there issueth a golden hawk. In his beak is a jewel which he drops into the lamp that hangs from the height above the head of the LADY PSYCHE. this lamp remains dark. During his darkness the Unicorn, the Lion, and the Peacock disappear.] Love me and lead me through the blind abysses! Fill me and feed me on the crowning kisses, Like flowers that flicker in the garden of glory, Pools of pure liquor like pale flames and hoary That lamp the lightless empyrean! Ah! love me! All space be sightless, and thine eyes above me! Thrice burnt and branded on this bleeding brow, Stamp thou the candid stigma -- even now! [The lamp flashes forth into dazzling but momentary radiance. As it goes out a cone of white light is seen upon the head of THE LADY PSYCHE, And before her stands a figure of immense height cloaked and hooded in perfect blackness.] THE KING. Come! for the throne is hollow. The eagle hath cried: Come away! The stars are numbered, and the tide Turns. Follow! Follow! Thine Adonis slumbered. As a bride Adorned, come, follow! Fate alone is fallen and wried. Follow me, follow! The unknown is satisfied. [The LADY PSYCHE is lifted to her feet. In silence she bows, and in silence follows him as he turns and advances to the gate while the curtain falls.]
SCENE V:	THE GARDEN OF THE LADY ASTARTE.
THE LORD ESARHADDON is lying on the couch with his mistress. Their arms are intertwined. They and their slaves and maidens are all fallen into the abysses of deep sleep. It is a cloudless night; and the full moon, approaching mid-heaven, casts but the shortest shadows. The Murmur of the Breeze I am the Breeze to bless the bowers, Sigh through the trees, caress the flowers; Each folded bud to sway, to swoon, With its green blood beneath the moon Stirred softly by my kiss; I bear The sort reply of amber air To the exhaled sighs of the heat That dreams and dies amid the wheat, From the cool breasts of mountains far -- Their serried crests clasp each a star! The earth’s pulse throbs with mighty rivers; With her low sobs God’s heaven quivers; The dew stands on her brow; with love She aches for all the abyss above, Her rocks and chasms the lively strife Of her sharp spasms of lust, of life. Hark! to the whisper of my fan, My sister kiss to maid and man. Through all earth’s wombs, through all sea’s waves, Gigantic glooms, forgotten graves, I haunt the tombs of kings and slaves. I hush the babe, I wake the bird, I wander away beyond stars unstirred, Soften the ripples of the tide, Soothe the bruised nipples of the bride, Help stars and clouds play hide-and-seek, Wind seamen’s shrouds, bid ruins speak, Bring dreams to slumber, sleep to dream Whose demons cumber night’s extreme. And softer sped than dream or death Quiet as the dead, or slain love’s breath, I sigh for loves that swoon upon The hanging groves of Babylon. Each terrace adds a shower of scent Where lass and lad seduce content; Each vine that hangs confirms the stress Of purer pangs of drunkenness; Each marble wall and pillar swerves Majestical my course to curves Subtle as breasts and limbs and tresses Of this caressed suave sorceress’s That raves and rests in wildernesses Whose giant gifts are strength that scars Her soul and lifts her to the stars, Savage, and tenderness that tunes Her spirit’s splendour to the moon’s, And music of passion to outrun The fiery fashion of the sun. Hush! there’s a stir not mine amid the groves, A foot divine that yet is not like live’s. Hush! let me furl my forehead! I’ll be gone To flicker and curl above great Babylon. [The Gate of the Garden op ens. THE LADY PSYCHE advances and makes way for THE KING OF BABYLON. He is attended by many companies of warriors in armour of burnished silver and gold, with swords, spears, and shields. These take up position at the back of the stage, in perfect silence of foot as of throat.] [THE LADY PSYCHE remains standing by the gate; THE KING OF BABYLON advances with infinite stealth, dignity, slowness, and power, toward the couch.] PSYCHE. Life? Is it life? What hour of fate is on the bell? Of this supreme ordeal what issue? Heaven or hell? I am stripped of all my power now when I need it most; I am empty and unreal, a shadow or a ghost. All the great stake is thrown, even now the dice are falling. All deeds are locked in links, one to another calling through time: from the dim throne the first rune that was ree’d By God, the supreme Sphinx, determined the last deed. [THE KING OF BABYLON reaches forth his hand and arm. It is the hand and arm of a skeleton. He touches the forehead of the sleeping lord. Instantly, radiant and naked, a male figure is seen erect.]
PSYCHE	Adonis!
ADONIS	Psyche!
[They run together and embrace.
PSYCHE	Ah! long-lost!
ADONIS	My wife! Light, O intolerable! Infinite love! O life Beyond death!
PSYCHE	I have found thee!
ADONIS	I was thine.
PSYCHE	I thine From all the ages!
ADONIS	To the ages!
PSYCHE	Mine!
[The KING passes over and departs. Chorus of Soldiers Hail to the Lord! Without a spear, without a sword He hath smitten, he hath smitten, one stroke of his worth all our weaponed puissiances. There is no helm, no hauberk, no cuirass, No shield of sevenfold steel and sevenfold brass Resists his touch; no sword, no spear but shivers Before his glance. Eternally life quivers And reels before him; death itself, the hound of god, Slinks at his heel, and licks the dust that he hath trod. [They follow their Lord, singing. PSYCHE. I am a dewdrop focussing the sun That fires the forest to the horizon. I am a cloud on whom the sun begets The iris arch, a fountain in whose jets Throbs inner fire of the earth’s heart, a flower Slain by the sweetness of the summer shower.
ADONIS	I am myself, knowing I am thou. Forgetfulness forgotten now! Truth, truth primeval, truth eternal, Unconditioned, sempiternal, Sets the God within the shrine And my mouth on thine, on thine.
[THE LADY ASTARTE wakes. In her arms is the corpse of the LORD ESARHADDON.]
ASTARTE	O fearful dreams! Awake and kiss me! Awake! I thought I was crushed and strangled by a snake. [She rises. The corpse falls. He is dead! He is dead! O lips of burning bloom, You are ashen. [The jaw falls. The black laughter of the tomb! Then let me kill myself! Bring death distilled From nightshade, monkshood. Let no dawn regild this night. Let me not see the damnèd light Of day, but drown in this black-hearted night! Ho, slaves! [ADONIS and PSYCHE advance to her.
ADONIS	Thyself a slave! What curse (unbated Till patient earth herself is nauseated) Is worse than this, an handmaiden that creeps Into her mistress’ bed while her lord sleeps, And robs her?
ASTARTE	And what worse calamity Than his revenge? But leave me, let me die! [She falls prone at their feet.
PSYCHE	Add robbery to robbery! We need thee To serve us. Let us raise thee up and feed thee, Comfort and cherish thee until the end, Less slave than child, less servitor than friend.
ADONIS	Rise! let the breath flow, let the lips affirm Fealty and love. To the appointed term Within thy garden as belovèd guests Of thine, let us abide. Now lips and breasts Touching, three bodies and one soul, the triple troth confirm.
PSYCHE	The great indissoluble oath!
ASTARTE	Lift me!
[They raise her; all embrace. By him that ever reigns upon The throne, and wears the crown, of Babylon, I serve, and love.
PSYCHE	This kiss confirm it!
ADONIS	This!
ASTARTE	I have gained all in losing all. Now kiss Once more with arms linked!
ADONIS	The dawn breaks!
ASTARTE	Behold Love’s blush!
PSYCHE	Light’s breaking!
ADONIS	Live’s great globe of gold!
ASTARTE	Come! let us break our fast.
PSYCHE	My long fast’s broken.
ADONIS	Let us talk of love.
PSYCHE	Love’s first-last word is spoken.
ADONIS	Nay! but the tides of trouble are transcended. The word’s begun, but never shall be ended. And through the sun forsake the maiden east, Life be for us a never-fading feast. [They go towards the house, singing. ALL. The Crown of our life is our love, The crown of our love is the light That rules all the region above The night and the stars of the night; That rules all the region aright, The abyss to abysses above; For the crown of our love is the light, And the crown of our light is our love.

Liber A'ASH vel Capriconi Pneumatici
sub figura CCCLXX

Publication in Class A

Gnarled Oak of God! In thy branches is the lightning nested! Above thee hangs the Eyeless Hawk.
Thou art blasted and black! Supremely solitary in that heath of scrub.
Up! The Ruddy clouds hang over thee! It is the storm.
There is a flaming gash in the sky.
Up.
Thou art tossed about in the grip of the storm for an aeon and an aeon and an aeon. But thou givest not thy sap; thou fallest not.
Only in the end shalt thou give up thy sap when the great God F.I.A.T. is enthroned on the day of Be-With-Us.
For two things are done and a third thing is begun. Isis and Osiris are given over to incest and adultery. Horus leaps up thrice armed from the womb of his mother. Harpocrates his twin is hidden within him. SET is his holy covenant, that he shall display in the great day of M.A.A.T., that is being interpreted the Master of the Temple of A.'. A.'., whose name is Truth.
Now in this is the magical power known.
It is like the oak that hardens itself and bears up against the storm. It is weather-beaten and scarred and confident like a sea-captain.
Also it straineth like a hound in the leash.
It hath pride and great subtlety. Yea, and glee also!
Let the Magus act thus in his conjuration.
Let him sit and conjure; let him draw himself together in that forcefulness; let him rise next swollen and straining; let him dash back the hood from his head and fix his basilisk eye upon the sigil of the demon. Then let him sway the force of him to and fro like a satyr in silence, until the Word burst from his throat.
Then let him not fall exhausted, although he
WEH NOTE: EQUINOX I, 6 has "...the might..."

might have been ten thousandfold the human; but that which floodeth him is the infinite mercy of the Genitor-Genitrix of the Universe, whereof he is the Vessel.

Nor do thou deceive thyself. It is easy to tell the live force from the dead matter. It is no easier to tell the live snake from the dead snake.
Also concerning vows. Be obstinate, and be not obstinate. Understand that the yielding of the Yoni is one with the lengthening of the Lingam. Thou art both these; and thy vow is but the rustling of the wind on Mount Meru.
How
WEH NOTE: EQUINOX I, 6 has "Now..."

shalt thou adore me who am the Eye and the Tooth, the Goat of the Spirit, the Lord of Creation. I am the Eye in the Triangle, the Silver Star that ye adore.

I am Baphomet, that is the Eightfold Word that shall be equilibrated with the Three.
There is no act or passion that shall not be an hymn in mine honour.
All holy things and all symbolic things shall be my sacraments.
These animals are sacred unto me; the goat, and the duck, and the ass, and the gazelle, the man, the woman and the child.
All corpses are sacred unto me; they shall not be touched save in mine eucharist. All lonely places are sacred unto me; where one man gathereth himself together in my name, there will I leap forth in the midst of him.
I am the hideous god, and who mastereth me is uglier than I.
Yet I give more than Bacchus and Apollo; my gifts exceed the olive and the horse.
Who worshippeth me must worship me with many rites.
I am concealed with all concealments; when the Most Holy Ancient One is stripped and driven through the market place, I am still secret and apart.
Whom I love I chastise with many rods.
All things are sacred to me; no thing is sacred from me.
For there is no holiness where I am not.
Fear not when I fall in the fury of the storm; for mine acorns are blown afar by the wind; and verily I shall rise again, and my children about me, so that we shall uplift our forest in Eternity.
Eternity is the storm that covereth me.
I am Existence, the Existence that existeth not save through its own Existence, that is beyond the Existence of Existences, and rooted deeper than the No-Thing-Tree in the Land of No-Thing.
Now therefore thou knowest when I am within Thee, when my hood is spread over thy skull, when my might is more than the penned Indus, and resistless as the Giant Glacier.
For as thou art before a lewd woman in Thy nakedness in the bazaar, sucked up by her slyness and smiles, so art thou wholly and no more in part before the symbol of the beloved, though it be but a Pisacha or a Yantra or a Deva.
And in all shalt thou create the Infinite Bliss and the next link of the Infinite Chain.
This chain reaches from Eternity to Eternity, ever in triangles --- is not my symbol a triangle? --- ever in circles --- is not the symbol of the Beloved a circle? Therein is all progress base illusion, for every circle is alike and every triangle alike!
But the progress is progress, and progress is rapture, constant, dazzling, showers of light, waves of dew, flames of the hair of the Great Goddess, flowers of the roses that are about her neck, Amen!
Therefore lift up thyself as I am lifted up.
WEH NOTE: EQUINOX I, 6 makes this sentence the first of the following paragraph.

Hold thyself in as I am master to accomplish. At the end, be the end far distant as the stars that lie in the navel of Nuit, do thou slay thyself as I at the end am slain, in the death that is life, in the peace that is mother of war, in the darkness that holds light in his hand, as an harlot that plucks a jewel from her nostrils.

So therefore the beginning is delight, and the end is delight, and delight is in the midst, even as the Indus is water in the cavern of the glacier, and water among the greater hills and the lesser hills and through the ramparts of the hills and through the plains, and water at the mouth thereof when it leaps forth into the mighty sea, yea, into the mighty sea.
(The Interpretation of this Book will be given to members of the Grade of Dominus Liminis on application, each to his Adeptus.)

" ... the obeah and the wanga; the work of the wand and the work of the sword; these he shall learn and teach." Liber AL, I, 37.

The Pantacle.

Top

Take pure wax, or a plate of gold, silver-gilt or Electrum Magicum. The diameter shall be eight inches, and the thickness half an inch. 
Let the Neophyte by his understanding and ingenium devise a symbol to represent the Universe. 
Let his Zelator approve thereof. 
Let the Neophyte engrave the same upon the plate with his own hand and weapon. 
Let it when finished be consecrated as he hath skill to formform, and kept wrapped in silk of emerald green.

The Dagger.

Top

Let the Zelator take a piece of pure steel, and beat it, grind it, sharpen it, and polish it, according to the art of the swordsmith. 
Let him further take a piece of oak wood, and carve a hilt. The length shall be eight inches. 
Let him by his understanding and ingenium devise a Word to represent the Universe. 
Let his Practicus approve thereof. 
Let the Zelator engrave the same upon his dagger with his own hand and instruments. 
Let him further gild the wood of his hilt. 
Let it when finished be consecrated as he hath skill to formform, and kept wrapped in silk of golden yellow.

The Cup.

Top

Let the Practicus take a piece of Silver and fashion therefrom a cup. The height shall be 8 inches, and the diameter 3 inches. 
Let him by his understanding and ingenium devise a Number to represent the Universe. 
Let his Philosophus approve thereof. 
Let the Practicus engrave the same upon his cup with his own hand and instrument. 
Let it when finished be consecrated as he hath skill to formform, and kept wrapped in silk of azure blue.

The Baculum.

Top

Let the Philosophus take a rod of copper, of length eight inches and diameter half an inch. 
Let him fashion about the top a triple flame of gold. 
Let him by his understanding and ingenium devise a Deed to represent the Universe. 
Let his Dominus Liminis approve thereof. 
Let the Philosophus formform the same in such a way that the Baculum may be partaker therein. 
Let it when finished be consecrated as he hath skill to formform, and kept wrapped in silk of fiery scarlet.

The Lamp.

Top

Let the Dominus Liminis take pure lead, tin, and quicksilver, with platinum, and, if need be, glass. 
Let him by his understanding and ingenium devise a Magick Lamp that shall burn without wick or oil, being fed by the Aethyr. 
This shall he accomplish secretly and apart, without asking the advice or approval of his Adeptus Minor. 
Let the Dominus Liminis keep it when consecrated in the secret chamber of Art. 
This then is that which is written: "Bring furnished with complete armour and armed, he is similar to the goddess." 
And again, "I am armed, I am armed."

Liber
Batrachophrenoboocosmomachia
sub Figura DXXXVI

*.
Within His skull exist daily thirteen thousand myriads of Worlds, which draw their existence from Him, and by Him are upheld. ? I.R.Q. iii. 43.
0.
Let the Practicus study the textbooks of astronomy, travel, if need be, to a land where the sun and stars are visible, and observe the heavens with the best telescopes to which he may have access. Let him commit to memory the principal facts, and (at least roughly) the figures of the science.
1.
Now, since these figures will leave no direct impression with any precision upon his mind, let him adopt this practice A.
 
A. Let the practicus be seated before a bare square table, and let an unknown number of small similar objects be thrown by his chela from time to time upon the table, and by that chela be hastily gathered up.
Let the Practicus declare at the glance, and the chela confirm by his count, the number of such objects.
The practice should be for a quarter of an hour thrice daily. The maximum number of objects should at first be seven. This maximum should increase by one at each practice, provided that not a single mistake is made by the Practicus in appreciating the number thrown.
 
This practice should continue assiduously for at least one year.
The quickness of the chela in gathering up the objects is expected to increase with time. The practice need not be limited to a quarter of an hour thrice daily after a time, but increased with discretion. Care must be taken to detect the first symptoms of fatigue, and to stop, if possible, even before it threatens. The practised psychologist learns to recognise even minute hesitations that mark the forcing of the attention.
2.
Alternating with the above, let the Practicus begin this practice B. It is assumed that he has thoroughly conquered the elementary difficulties of Dharana, and is able to prevent mental pictures from altering shape, size and colour against his will.
 
B. Seated in the open air, let him endeavour to form a complete mental picture of himself and his immediate surroundings. It is important that he should be in the centre of such picture, and able to look freely in all directions. the finished picture should be a complete consciousness of the whole fixed, clear, and definite.
Let him gradually add to this picture by including objects more and more distant, until he have an image of the whole field of vision.
 
He will probably discover that it is very difficult to increase the apparent size of the picture as he proceeds, and it should be his most earnest endeavour to do so. he should seek in particular to appreciate distances, almost to the point of combatting the laws of perspective.
3.
These practices A and B accomplished, and his studies in astronomy completed, let him attempt this practice C.
 
C. Let the Practicus form a mental picture of the Earth, in particular striving to realize the size of the Earth in comparison with himself, and let him not be content until by assiduity he has well succeeded.
Let him add the moon, keeping well in mind the relative sizes of, and the distance between, the planet and its satellite.
 
He will probably find the final trick of the mind to be a constant disappearance of the image, and the appearance of the same upon a smaller scale. This trick he must outwit by constancy of endeavour.
 
He will then in add in turn Venus, Mars, Mercury and the Sun.
 
It is permissible at this stage to change the point of view to the centre of the Sun, and to do so may add stability to the conception.
 
The Practicus may then a the Asteroids, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. The utmost attention to detail is now necessary, as the picture is highly complex, apart from the difficulty of appreciating relative size and distance.
Let this picture be practised month after month until it is absolutely perfect. The tendency which may manifest itself to pass into Dhyana and Samadhi must be resolutely combated with the whole strength of the mind.
Let the Practicus then re-commence the picture, starting from the Sun, and adding the planets one by one, each with its proper motion, until he have an image perfect in all respect of the Solar System as it actually exists. Let him particularly note that unless the apparent size approximate to the real, his practice is wasted. Let him then add a comet to the picture; he may find, perhaps that the path of this comet may assist him to expand the sphere of his mental vision until it include a star.
 
And thus, gathering one star after another, let his contemplation become vast as the heaven, in space and time ever aspiring to the perception of the Body of Nuit; yea, the Body of Nuit.

BAPHOMET XI°

Liber DCXXXIII
{Book 633}
De Thaumaturgia

De Thaumaturgia enlarges on the ethical basis of the magical praxis for initiates-in-training, and underscores an important principle that is all too often overlooked. It first appeared in The International (New York, February 1918).--H.B.

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.

IT IS NOT POSSIBLE for the Master, o my brethren, who has fought so long with those things within Himself which have hindered Him, to expect that if toys be given to children they will not play with them. But watch may rightly be held lest they injure themselves therewith; this paper therefore, as a guard.

O, My Brethren, even as every dog is allowed one bite, so let every wonder-worker be allowed one miracle. For it is right that he should prove his new power, lest he be deceived by the wile and malice of the apes of Choronzon.

But with regard to the repetition of miracles the cause is not similar. Firstly cometh forth the general magical objection. The business of the aspirant is to climb the Middle Pillar from Malkuth to Kether; and though the other Pillars must be grasped firmly as aids to equilibrium, he should in no wise cling to them. He aspires to the Knowledge and Conversation of his Holy Guardian Angel, and all other works are deviations. He may however perform miracles when necessary in order to carry out this main work; thus. he may perform a divination to assist him to discover a suitable house for the purpose, or even evoke a planetary spirit to guard him and aid him during the time of preparation, if it be necessary. But in all such works let him be well assured in himself that his sole object is really that Knowledge and Conversation. Otherwise, he has broken concentration, and the One work alone being White Magick, all others are Black Magick.

Secondly ariseth a similar objection derived from considerations of Energy. For all miracles involve loss; as it is said ``she perceived that virtue had gone out of him.'' The exception is therefore as follows, that such miracles as tend to the conservation or renewal of Energy are lawful. Thus the preparation of the Elixir of Life is blameless; and the practices of the IX° of O.T.O. in general, so far as they have for object the gain of Strength, Youth, and Vitality.

It may further be considered just to perform miracles to aid others, within certain limits. One must consciously say: I deliberately sacrifice Energy and my own Great Work for this Object. Therefore the Magician must first of all calculate whether or no the object be worthy of the sacrifice. Thus, in the first year of the Path of the Master Therion, he, with V.H. Frater Volo Noscere, evoked the Spirit Buer to save the life of V.H. Frater Iehi Aour; saying in themselves: The life of this holy man is of vast importance to this Aeon; let us give up this small portion of our strength for this great end. The answer might have been made: Nay, nothing is ever lost; let him rather work out this evil Karma of ill-health, and die and incarnate anew in youth and strength. It is hard even now to say if this had been better. The holy man did indeed recover, did attain to yet greater things, did awake a great people to aspiration; no operation could ever have been more successful: Yet still there remaineth doubt as to whether the natural order of things had not conceived a finer flowering.

But this is a general objection of the sceptical sort to all miracles of whatever kind, and leadeth anon into the quagmire of arguments about Free Will. The adept will do better to rely upon The Book of the Law, which urgeth constantly to action. Even rash action is better than none, by that Light: let the magician then argue that his folly is part of that natural order which worketh all so well.

And this may be taken as a general license to perform any and every miracle according to one's will.

The argument has therefore been swung to each extreme; and like all arguments, ends in chaos.

The above concerning true miracles; but with regard to false miracles the case is altogether different.

Since it is part of the Magick of every one to cause both Nature and man to conform to the Will, man may lawfully be influenced by the performance of miracles. But true miracles should not be used for this purpose; for it is to profane the nature of the miracle, and to cast pearls before swine; further, man is so built that he will credit false miracles, and regard true miracles as false. It is also useful at times for the magician to prove to them that he is an imposter; therefore, he can easily expose his false miracles, whereas this must not be done where they are true; for to deny true miracles is to injure the power to perform them.

Similarly, none of the other objections cited above apply to false miracles; for they are not, properly speaking, magick at all, and come under the heading of common acts. Only insofar as common acts are magick do they come under consideration, and here the objection may be raised that they are, peculiarly, Error; that they simulate, and so blaspheme, the Truth. Certainly this is so, and they must only be performed for the purpose of blinding the eyes of the malicious, and that only in that peculiar spirit of mockery which delights the initiates in the Comedy of Pan.

The end of the matter then is that as in Comedy and Tragedy all things are lawful, live thou in Comedy or Tragedy eternally, never blinding thyself to think Life aught but mummery, and perform accordingly the false miracles or the true, as may be Thy Will.

Love is the law, love under will.

000. The Building of the Pyramid.

Top
The Magus with Wand. On the Altar are incense, Fire, Bread, Wine, the Chain, the Scourge, the Dagger & the Oil. In his left hand the Bell he taketh.

Hail! Asi! hail, Hoor-Apep! Let
The Silence speech beget! Two strokes on Bell. 
Banishing Spiral Dance.
The Words against the Sons of Night
Tahuti speaketh in the Light.
Knowledge & Power, twin warriors, shake
The Invisible; they roll asunder
The Darkness; matter shines, a snake.
Sebek is smitten by the thunderÄ
The Light breaks forth from Under.

He goes to the West, in the centre of the base of the Triangle of THOTH (Maim), ASI (Aleph), & HOOR (Shin).

O Thou, the Apex of the Plane,
With Ibis head & Phoenix Wand
And Wings of Night! Whose serpents strain
Thou in the Light & in the Night!

He lays the Wand, etc., on the Altar, uses the Scourge on his buttocks, cuts a cross with the Daggar upon his breast & tightens the Chain of the Bell about his forehead, saying:

The Lustral Water! Smite thy flood
Through meÄLymph, marrow & blood! Annointing the Wounds, say
The Fire Informing! Let the Oil
Balance, assain, assoil! The Invoking Spiral Dance.
So Life takes Fire from Death, & runs
Whirling amid the Suns.
Hail, Asi! Pace the Path, bind on
The girdle of the Starry One! 
Sign of the Enterer: Homage to Thee, Lord of the Word! Sign of Silence: Lord of Silence, Homage to Thee! Repeat both Signs: Lord we adore Thee, still & stirred Beyond Infinity. The Secret Word: MTzThBTzMÄ271 (Blue, Orange, Yellow-Green, Yellow, Orange, Blue)

For from the Silence of the Wand
Unto the Speaking of the Sword,
And back again to the Beyond,
This is the toil & the Reward.
This is the Path of HVAÄHo!
This is the Path of IAO. Bell.
Hail Asi! Hail, thou Wanded Wheel!
Alpha & Delta kissed & came
For five that feed the Flame. Bell.
Hail, Hoor-Apep! thou Sword of Steel!
Alpha & Delta & Epsilon
Met in the Shadow of the Pylon
And in Iota did proclaim
That tenfold core & crown of flame.
Hail, Hoor-Apep! Unspoken Name! 
Thus is the Great Pyramid duly builded.

1.Initiation.

Top
The Candidate still bound and hoodwinked. The First Pylon.

I know not who I am; I know not whence I came;
I know not whither I go; I seekÄbut What I do
not know!
I am blind & bound; but I have heard one cry
Ring through Eternity; Arise & follow me!

Asar Un-nefer! I invoke
The four-fold Horror of the Smoke.
Unloose the Pit! by the dread Word
Of PowerÄthat Set-Typhon hath heardÄ SAZAZSAZAZADANATASANSAZAZ

(Pronounce this backwards. But it is very dangerous. It opens up the Gates of Hell.)

The Fear of Darkness & of Death
The Fear of Water & of Fire
The Fear of the Chasm & the Chain
The Fear of Hell & the dead Breath.
The Fear of Him, the Demon dire
That on the Threshold of the Inane
Stands with his Dragon Fear to slay
The Pilgrim of the Way.
Thus I pass by with Force & Care,
Advance with Fortitude & Wit,
In the straight Path, or else Their Snare
Were surely Infinite. The Passing of the Second Pylon.
(Suit action to words.)
Asar! who clutches at my throat?
Who pins me down? Who stabs my heart?
I am unfit to pass within this Pylon of the Hall of Maat.

Rubric as above. (The Fear....surely Infinite.)

The Lustral Water! Let thy flood
Cleanse meÄlymph, marrow, & blood!
The Scourge, the Dagger & the Chain
Purge body, breast & brain!
The Fire Informing! Let the Oil
Balance, assain, assoil! Still in corpseÄposition.
For I am come with all this pain,
To ask admission to the Shrine.
I do not know whyÄI ask in vainÄ
Unless it be that I am Thine.
I am Mentu his truth-telling brother,
Who was Master of Thebes from my birth:Ä
O heart of me! heart of my mother!
O heart that I had upon the earth!
Stand not thou up against me as a witness!
Oppose me not, judge, in my quest!
Accuse me not now of unfitness
Before the great God, the dread Lord of the West! 
(Change this part to your own motto. 
Work the scansion correctly.)
Speak fair words for OU MH. May he flourish
In the place of the weighing of hearts
By the marsh of the dead, where the crocodiles nourish
Their lives on the lost, where the Serpent upstarts.
ÄFor though I be joined to the Earth,
In the Innermost Shrine of Heaven am I.
I was Master of Thebes from my birth;
Shall I die like a dog? Thou shalt not let me die,
But my Khu that the teeth of the crocodiles sever
Shall be mighty in heaven for ever & ever!
Yea! but I am a fool, a flutterer!
I am under the Shadow of the Wings!

Refrain "I am under," etc., after each accusation.

I am a liar & a sorcerer
I am so fickle that I scorn the bridle.
I am unchaste, voluptuous and idle.
I am a bully & a tyrant crass,
I am as dull & as stubborn as an ass;
I am untrusty, cruel & insane,
I am a fool & frivolous & vain.
I am a weakling & a coward; I cringe,
I am a catamite & cunnilinge.
I am a glutton, a besotted wight;
I am a satyr & a sodomite.
I am as changeful & selfish as the Sea.
I am a thing of vice & vanity.
I am not violent & I vaccilate,
I am a blind man & esmasculate.
I am a raging fire of wrathÄno wiser!
I am a blackguard, spendthrift & a miser.
I am obscene & devious & null.
I am ungenerous & base & dull.
I am not marked with the white Flame of Breath.
I am a Traitor!Ädie the traitor's death!

This last raises Candidate erect. 
Invoking Spiral Dance.
Rubric as before.

I am under the Shadow of the Wings.
Now let me pace the Path, bind on
The girdle of the Starry One!
Asar! k.t.l. In Northwest.
SoulÄmastering Terror is thy name!
Lord of the Gods! Dread Lord of Hell! See Horus.
I am come. I fear Thee not. Thy flame
Is mine to weave my maiden spell!
I know Thee, & I pass Thee by.
For more that Thou am I!
Asar! k.t.l. (Rubric as usual.) In Southwest. See Isis.
Sorrow that eateth up the soul!
Dam of the Gods! The blue sky's Queen!
This is Thy Name. I come. Control
And Pass! I know Thee, Lady of Teeu!
know Thee & I pass Thee by.
For more than Thou am I!
Asar! k.t.l. (Rubric as usual.) In East. See Thoth. Silence
Asar! k.t.l. (Rubric as usual.) See Nature.
I will not look upon thee more,
For Fatal is Thy Name. Begone!
False Phantom, thou shalt pass before
The frowning forehead of the Sun.
I know Thee; & I pass thee by.
For more that Thou am I. Formulating Hexagram:
Now Witness YE upon the Earth,
Spirit & Water & Red Blood!
Witness Above, bright Babe of Birth,
Spirit, & FatherÄthat are God! As babe in egg, being born.
For Silence duly is begot
And Darkness duly brought to bed;
The Shroud is figured in my Thought,
The Inmost Light is on my head. Unbind.
Attack! I eat up the strong lions. I!

Sign of the Enterer:

Fear is on Seb, on them that
dwell therein,
Behold the radient Vigour of the Lord! Sign of Silence:
Defense! I close the mouth of Sebek, ply
My fear on Nile, Asar that held not in!
Behold my radiant Peace, ye things abhorred
For see! The Gods have loosed mine hands:
Asar unfettered stands.
Hail, Asi, hail! Hoor-Apep criesÄ
Now I the Son of Man arise
And followÄdead where Asar lies! 
Lies down in Sign of Hanged Man.
I guild my left foot with the Light.
I guild my Phallus with the Light.
I guild my right knee with the Light.
I guild my right foot with the Light.
I guild my left knee with the Light.
I guild my Phallus with the Light.
I guild my elbow with the Light.
I guild my navel with the Light.
I guild my heart wedge with the Light.
I guild my black throat with the Light.
I guild my forehead with the Light.
I guild my Phallus with the Light. Rising in Sign Mulier:
Asar Un-nefer! I am Thine,
Waiting Thy Glory in the shrine.
Thy bride, Thy virgin! Ah, my Lord.
Smite through the Spirit with Thy Sword!
Asar Un-nefer! rise in me,
The chosen catamite of Thee!
Come! Ah, come now! I wait, I wait,
PatientÄimpatient slave of Fate,
Bought by Thy glanceÄCome now! come now!
Touch & inform this burning brow.
Asar Un-nefer! in the shrine,
Make Thou me wholly Thine! Remove hoodwink.
I am AsarÄworthy alone
To sit upon the Double Throne.
Attack is mine & mine defence.
And these are one. Arise, go hence!
For I am Master of my Fate,
Wholly Initiate. The Secret Word.
The Words are spoken duly. The deeds are duly done.
My soul is risen newly to greet the risen Sun.

Bell accordingly.

One! Four! Five! Ten! All Hail!
Hail!
One! Four! Five! Ten! All Hail!

Signs accordingly.

I give the sign that rends the Veil.
The sign that closes up the Veil.

2. The Sealing of the Pyramid.

Top
Proceed as in the Building, unto the the word "Suns."
The Banishing Spiral Dance.
Now let mine hands unloose the sweet
And shining girdle of Nuit! The Adorations & the Word.

Then at the Altar.

Behold! the Perfect One hath said
Tried & found pure, a golden spoil.
These are my body's elements Act accordingly.
Incense & Wine & Fire & Bread
These I consume, true Sacraments,
For the Perfection of the Oil
For I am clothed about with flesh
And I am the Eternal Spirit.
I am the Lord that riseth fresh
From Death, whose glory I inherit
Since I partake with him. I am
The Manifestor of the Unseen.
Without me all the land of Khem
Is as if it had not been. Proceed as in Building to end.
Hail, Hoor! Hail, Asi! Hail, Tahuti! Hail,
Asar Un-nefer! through the rended Veil.
I am Thyself, with all Thy brilliance deckedÄ 
Khabs-Am-Pekht.]

Energized Enthusiasm
A Note on Theurgy

I

I A O the supreme One of the Gnostics, the true God, is the Lord of this work. Let us therefore invoke Him by that name which the Companions of the royal Arch blaspheme to aid us in the essay to declare the means which He has bestowed upon us!

II

The divine consciousness which is reflected and refracted in the works of Genius feeds upon a certain secretion, as I believe. This secretion is analogous to semen, but not identical with it. There are but few men and fewer women, those women being invariably androgyne, who possess it at any time in any quantity.

So closely is this secretion connected with the sexual economy that it appears to me at times as if it might be a by-product of that process which generates semen. That some form of this doctrine has been generally accepted is shown in the prohibitions of all religions. Sanctity has been assumed to depend on chastity, and chastity has nearly always been interpreted as abstinence. But I doubt whether the relation is so simple as this would imply; for example, I find in myself that manifestations of mental creative force always concur with some abnormal condition of the physical powers of generation. But it is not the case that long periods of chastity, on the one hand, or excess of orgies, on the other, are favourable to its manifestation or even to its formation.

I know myself, and in me it is extremely strong; its results are astounding. For example, I wrote "Tannhauser," complete from conception to execution, in sixty-seven consecutive hours. I was unconscious of the fall of nights and days, even after stopping; nor was there any reaction of fatigue. This work was written when I was twenty-four years old, immediately on the completion of an orgie which would normally have tired me out.

Often and often have I noticed that sexual satisfaction so-called has left me dissatisfied and unfatigued, and let loose the floods of verse which have disgraced my career.

Yet, on the contrary, a period of chastity has sometimes fortified me for a great outburst. This is far from being invariably the case. At the conclusion of the K 2 expedition, after five months of chastity, I did no work whatever, barring very few odd lyrics, for months afterwards.

I may mention the year 1911. At this time I was living, in excellent good health, with the woman whom I loved. Her health was, however, variable, and we were both constantly worried. The weather was continuously fine and hot. For a period of about three months I hardly missed a morning; always on waking I burst out with a new idea which had to be written down. The total energy of my being was very high. My weight was 10 stone 8 lb., which had been my fighting weight when I was ten years younger. We walked some twenty miles daily through hilly forest. The actual amount of MSS. written at this time is astounding; their variety is even more so; of their excellence I will not speak.

Here is a rough list from memory; it is far from exhaustive:

(1) Some dozen books of A.'. A.'. instruction, including liber Astarte, and the Temple of Solomon the King for "Equinox VII."

(2) Short Stories: The Woodcutter.
His Secret Sin.

(3) Plays: His Majesty's Fiddler
Elder Eel
Adonis . written straight off, one
The Ghouls. after the other
Mortadello.

(4) Poems: The Sevenfold Sacrament
A Birthday.

(5) Fundamentals of the Greek Qabalah (involving the collection and analysis of several thousand words).

I think this phenomenon is unique in the history of literature. I may further refer to my second journey to Algeria, where my sexual life, though fairly full, had been unsatisfactory.

On quitting Biskra, I was so full of ideas that I had to get off the train at El-Kantara, where I wrote "The Scorpion." Five or six poems were written on the way to Paris; "The Ordeal of Ida Pendragon" during my twenty-four hours' stay in Paris, and "Snowstorm" and "The Electric Silence" immediately on my return to England.

To sum up, I can always trace a connection between my sexual condition and the condition of artistic creation, which is so close as to approach identity, and yet so loose that I cannot predicate a single important proposition.

It is these considerations which give me pain when I am reproached by the ignorant with wishing to produce genius mechanically. I may fail, but my failure is a thousand times greater than their utmost success.

I shall therefore base my remarks not so much on the observations which I have myself made, and the experiments which I have tried, as on the accepted classical methods of producing that energized enthusiasm which is the lever that moves God.

III

The Greeks say that there are three methods of discharging the genial secretion of which I have spoken. They thought perhaps that their methods tended to secrete it, but this I do not believe altogether, or without a qualm. For the manifestation of force implies force, and this force must have come from somewhere.

Easier I find it to say "subconsciousness" and "secretion" than to postulate an external reservoir, to extend my connotation of "man" than to invent "God." However, parsimony apart, I find it in my experience that it is useless to flog a tired horse. There are times when I am absolutely bereft of even one drop of this elixir. Nothing will restore it, neither rest in bed, nor drugs, nor exercise. On the other hand, sometimes when after a severe spell of work I have been dropping with physical fatigue, perhaps sprawling on the floor, too tired to move hand or foot, the occurrence of an idea has restored me to perfect intensity of energy, and the working out of the idea has actually got rid of the aforesaid physical fatigue, although it involved a great additional labour.

Exactly parallel (nowhere meeting) is the case of mania. A madman may struggle against six trained athletes for hours, and show no sign of fatigue. Then he will suddenly collapse, but at a second's notice from the irritable idea will resume the struggle as fresh as ever. Until we discovered "unconscious muscular action" and its effects, it was rational to suppose such a man "possessed of a devil"; and the difference between the madman and the genius is not in the quantity but in the quality of their work. Genius is organized, madness chaotic. Often the organization of genius is on original lines, and ill-balanced and ignorant medicine-men mistake it for disorder.

Time has shown that Whistler and Gauguin "kept rules" as well as the masters whom they were supposed to be upsetting.

IV

The Greeks say that there are three methods of discharging the Lyden Jar of Genius. These three methods they assign to three Gods.

These three Gods are Dionysus, Apollo, Aphrodite. In English: wine, woman and song.

Now it would be a great mistake to imagine that the Greeks were recommending a visit to a brothel. As well condemn the High Mass at St. Peter's on the strength of having witnessed a Protestant revival meeting. Disorder is always a parody of order, because there is no archetypal disorder that it might resemble. Owen Seaman can parody a poet; nobody can parody Owen Seaman. A critic is a bundle of impressions; there is no ego behind it. All photographs are essentially alike; the works of all good painters essentially differ.

Some writers suppose that in the ancient rites of Eleusis the High Priest publicly copulated with the High Priestess. Were this so, it would be no more "indecent" than it is "blasphemous" for the priest to make bread and wine into the body and blood of God. True, the Protestants say that it is blasphemous; but a Protestant is one to whom all things sacred are profane, whose mind being all filth can see nothing in the sexual act but a crime or a jest, whose only facial gestures are the sneer and the leer. Protestantism is the excrement of human thought, and accordingly in Protestant countries art, if it exist at all, only exists to revolt. Let us return from this unsavoury allusion to our consideration of the methods of the Greeks.

V

Agree then that it does not follow from the fact that wine, woman and song make the sailor's tavern that these ingredients must necessarily concoct a hell-broth.

There are some people so simple as to think that, when they have proved the religious instinct to be a mere efflorescence of the sex-instinct, they have destroyed religion.

We should rather consider that the sailor's tavern gives him his only glimpse of heaven, just as the destructive criticism of the phallicists has only proved sex to be a sacrament. Consciousness, says the materialist, axe in hand, is a function of the brain. He has only re-formulated the old saying, "Your bodies are the temples of the Holy Ghost."!

Now sex is justly hallowed in this sense, that it is the eternal fire of the race. Huxley admitted that "some of the lower animalculae are in a sense immortal," because they go on reproducing eternally by fission, and however often you divide "x" by 2 there is always something left. But he never seems to have seen that mankind is immortal in exactly the same sense, and goes on reproducing itself with similar characteristics through the ages, changed by circumstance indeed, but always identical in itself. But the spiritual flower of this process is that at the moment of discharge a physical ecstasy occurs, a spasm analogous to the mental spasm which meditation gives. And further, in the sacramental and ceremonial use of the sexual act, the divine consciousness may be attained.

VI

The sexual act being then a sacrament, it remains to consider in what respect this limits the employment of the organs. First, it is obviously legitimate to employ them for their natural physical purpose. But if it be allowable to use them ceremonially for a religious purpose, we shall find the act hedged about with many restrictions.

For in this case the organs become holy. It matters little to mere propagation that men should be vicious; the most debauched roue might and almost certainly would beget more healthy children than a semi-sexed prude. So the so-called "moral" restraints are not based on reason; thus they are neglected.

But admit its religious function, and one may at once lay down that the act must not be profaned. It must not be undertaken lightly and foolishly without excuse.

It may be undertaken for the direct object of continuing the race.

It may be undertaken in obedience to real passion; for passion, as the name implies, is rather inspired by a force of divine strength and beauty without the will of the individual, often even against it.

It is the casual or habitual --- what Christ called "idle" --- use or rather abuse of these forces which constitutes their profanation. It will further be obvious that, if the act in itself is to be the sacrament in a religious ceremony, this act must be accomplished solely for the love of God.

All personal considerations must be banished utterly. Just as any priest can perform the miracle of transubstantiation, so can any man, possessing the necessary qualifications, perform this other miracle, whose nature must form the subject of a subsequent discussion.

Personal aims being destroyed, it is "a fortiori" necessary to neglect social and other similar considerations.

Physical strength and beauty are necessary and desirable for aesthetic reasons, the attention of the worshippers being liable to distraction if the celebrants are ugly, deformed, or incompetent.

I need hardly emphasize the necessity for the strictest self-control and concentration on their part. As it would be blasphemy to enjoy the gross taste of the wine of the sacrament, so must the celebrant suppress even the minutest manifestation of animal pleasure.

Of the qualifying tests there is no necessity to speak; it is sufficient to say that the adepts have always known how to secure efficiency.

Needless also to insist on a similar quality in the assistants; the sexual excitement must be suppressed and transformed into its religious equivalent.

VII

With these preliminaries settle in order to guard against foreseen criticisms of those Protestants who, God having made them a little lower than the Angels, have made themselves a great deal lower than the beasts by their consistently bestial interpretation of all things human and divine, we may consider first the triune nature of these ancient methods of energizing enthusiasm.

Music has two parts; tone or pitch, and rhythm. The latter quality associates it with the dance, and that part of dancing which is not rhythm is sex. Now that part of sex which is not a form of the dance, animal movement, is intoxication of the soul, which connects it with wine. Further identities will suggest themselves to the student.

By the use of the three methods in one the whole being of man may thus be stimulated.

The music will create a general harmony of the brain, leading it in its own paths; the wine affords a general stimulus of the animal nature; and the sex-excitement elevates the moral nature of the man by its close analogy with the highest ecstasy. It remains, however, always for him to make the final transmutation. Unless he have the special secretion which I have postulated, the result will be commonplace.

So consonant is this system with the nature of man that it is exactly parodied and profaned not only in the sailor's tavern, but in the society ball. Here, for the lowest natures the result is drunkenness, disease and death; for the middle natures a gradual blunting of the finer feelings; for the higher, an exhilaration amounting at the best to the foundation of a life-long love.

If these Society "rites" are properly performed, there should be no exhaustion. After a ball, one should feel the need of a long walk in the young morning air. The weariness or boredom, the headache or somnolence, are Nature's warnings.

VIII

Now the purpose of such a ball, the moral attitude on entering, seems to me to be of supreme importance. If you go with the idea of killing time, you are rather killing yourself. Baudelaire speaks of the first period of love when the boy kisses the trees of the wood, rather than kiss nothing. At the age of thirty-six I found myself at Pompeii, passionately kissing that great grave statue of a woman that stands in the avenue of the tombs. Even now, as I wake in the morning, I sometimes fall to kissing my own arms.

It is with such a feeling that one should go to a ball, and with such a feeling intensified, purified and exalted, that one should leave it. If this be so, how much more if one go with the direct religious purpose burning in one's whole being! Beethoven roaring at the sunrise is no strange spectacle to me, who shout with joy and wonder, when I understand (without which one cannot really be said ever to see) a blade of grass. I fall upon my knees in speechless adoration at the moon; I hide my eyes in holy awe from a good Van Gogh.

Imagine then a ball in which the music is the choir celestial, the wine the wine of the Graal, or that of the Sabbath of the Adepts, and one's partner the Infinite and Eternal One, the True and Living God Most High!

Go even to a common ball --- the Moulin de la Galette will serve even the least of my magicians --- with your whole soul aflame within you, and your whole will concentrated on these ...ansubstantiations, and tell me what miracle takes place! It is the hate of, the distaste for, life that sends one to the ball when one is old; when one is young one is on springs until the hour falls; but the love of God, which is the only true love, diminishes not with age; it grows deeper and intenser with every satisfaction. It seems as if in the noblest men this secretion constantly increases --- which certainly suggests an external reservoir --- so that age loses all its bitterness. We find "Brother Lawrence," Nicholas Herman of Lorraine, at the age of eighty in continuous enjoyment of union with God. Buddha at an equal age would run up and down the Eight High Trances like an acrobat on a ladder; stories not too dissimilar are told of Bishop Berkeley. Many persons have not attained union at all until middle age, and then have rarely lost it.

It is true that genius in the ordinary sense of the word has nearly always showed itself in the young. Perhaps we should regard such cases as Nicholas Herman as cases of acquired genius. Now I am certainly of opinion that genius can be acquired, or, in the alternative, that it is an almost universal possession. Its rarity may be attributed to the crushing influence of a corrupted society. It is rare to meet a youth without high ideals, generous thoughts, a sense of holiness, of his own importance, which, being interpreted, is, of his own identity with God. Three years in the world, and he is a bank clerk or even a government official. Only those who intuitively understand from early boyhood that they must stand out, and who have the incredible courage and endurance to do so in the face of all that tyranny, callousness, and the scorn of inferiors can do; only these arrive at manhood uncontaminated.

Every serious or spiritual thought is made a jest; poets are thought "soft" and "cowardly," apparently because they are the only boys with a will of their own and courage to hold out against the whole school, boys and masters in league as once were Pilate and Herod; honour is replaced by expediency, holiness by hypocrisy. Even where we find thoroughly good seed sprouting in favourable ground, too often is there a frittering away of the forces. Facile encouragement of a poet or painter is far worse for him than any amount of opposition.

Here again the sex question (S.Q. so-called by Tolstoyans, chastity-mongers, nut-fooders, and such who talk and think of nothing else) intrudes its horrid head. I believe that every boy is originally conscious of sex as sacred. But he does not know what it is. With infinite diffidence he asks. The master replies with holy horror; the boy with a low leer, a furtive laugh, perhaps worse.

I am inclined to agree with the Head Master of Eton that paederastic passions among schoolboys "do no harm"; further, I think them the only redeeming feature of sexual life at public schools.

The Hindoos are wiser. At the well-watched hour of puberty the boy is prepared as for a sacrament; he is led to a duly consecrated temple, and there by a wise and holy woman, skilled in the art, and devoted to this end, he is ini??ated with all solemnity into the mystery of life.

The act is thus declared religious, sacred, impersonal, utterly apart from amorism and eroticism and animalism and sentimentalism and all the other vilenesses that Protestantism has made of it. The Catholic Church did, I believe, to some extent preserve the Pagan tradition. Marriage is a sacrament.<<Of course there has been a school of devilish ananders that has held the act in itself to be "Wicked." Of such blasphemers of Nature let no further word be said.>> But in the attempt to deprive the act of all accretions which would profane it, the Fathers of the Church added in spite of themselves other accretions which profaned it more. They tied it to property and inheritance. They wished it to serve both God and Mammon.

Rightly restraining the priest, who should employ his whole energy in the miracle of the Mass, they found their counsel a counsel of perfection. The magical tradition was in part lost; the priest could not do what was expected of him, and the unexpended portion of his energy turned sour. Hence the thoughts of priests, like the thoughts of modern faddists, revolved eternally around the S.Q.

A special and Secret Mass, a Mass of the Holy Ghost, a Mass of the Mystery of the Incarnation, to be performed at stated intervals, might have saved both monks and nuns, and given the Church eternal dominion of the world.

IX

To return. The rarity of genius is in great part due to the destruction of its young. Even as in physical life that is a favoured plant one of whose thousand seeds ever shoots forth a blade, so do conditions kill all but the strongest sons of genius. But just as rabbits increased apace in Australia, where even a missionary has been known to beget ninety children in two years, so shall we be able to breed genius if we can find the conditions which hamper it, and remove them.

The obvious practical step to take is to restore the rites of Bacchus, Aphrodite and Apollo to their proper place. They should not be open to every one, and manhood should be the reward of ordeal and initiation.

The physical tests should be severe, and weaklings should be killed out rather than artificially preserved. The same remark applies to intellectual tests. But such tests should be as wide as possible. I was an absolute duffer at school in all forms of athletics and games, because I despised them. I held, and still hold, numerous mountaineering world's records. Similarly, examinations fail to test intelligence. Cecil Rhodes refused to employ any man with a University degree. That such degrees lead to honour in England is a sign of England's decay, though even in England they are usually the stepping-stones to clerical idleness or pedagogic slavery.

Such is a dotted outline of the picture that I wish to draw. If the power to possess property depended on a man's competence, and his perception of real values, a new aristocracy would at once be created, and the deadly fact that social consideration varies with the power of purchasing champagne would cease to be a fact. Our pluto-hetairo-politicocracy would fall in a day.

But I am only too well aware that such a picture is not likely to be painted. We can then only work patiently and in secret. We must select suitable material and train it in utmost reverence to these three master-methods, or aiding the soul in its genial orgasm.

X

This reverent attitude is of an importance which I cannot over-rate. Normal people find normal relief from any general or special excitement in the sexual act.

Commander Marston, R.N., whose experiments in the effect of the tom-tom on the married Englishwoman are classical and conclusive, has admirably described how the vague unrest which she at first shows gradually assumes the sexual form, and culminates, if allowed to do so, in shameless masturbation or indecent advances. But this is a natural corollary of the proposition that married Englishwomen are usually unacquainted with sexual satisfaction.

Their desires are constantly stimulated by brutal and ignorant husbands, and never gratified. This fact again accounts for the amazing prevalence of Sapphism in London Society.

The Hindus warn their pupils against the dangers of breathing exercises. Indeed the slightest laxness in moral or physical tissues may cause the energy accumulated by the practice to discharge itself by involuntary emission. I have known this happen in my own experience.

It is then of the utmost importance to realize that the relief of the tension is to be found in what the Hebrews and the Greeks called prophesying, and which is better when organized into art. The disorderly discharge is mere waste, a wilderness of howlings; the orderly discharge is a "Prometheus unbound," or a L'age d'airain," according to the special aptitudes of the enthused person. But it must be remembered that special aptitudes are very easy to acquire if the driving force of enthusiasm be great. If you cannot keep the rules of others, you make rules of your own. One set turns out in the long run to be just as good as another.

Henry Rousseau, the duanier, was laughed at all his life. I laughed as heartily as the rest; though, almost despite myself, I kept on saying (as the phrase goes) "that I felt something; couldn't say what."

The moment it occurred to somebody to put up all his paintings in one room by themselves, it was instantly apparent that his "naivete" was the simplicity of a Master. Let no one then imagine that I fail to perceive or underestimate the dangers of employing these methods. The occurrence even of so simple a matter as fatigue might change a LasMeninas into a stupid sexual crisis.

It will be necessary for most Englishmen to emulate the self-control of the Arabs and Hindus, whose ideal is to deflower the greatest possible number of virgins --- eighty is considered a fairly good performance --- without completing the act.

It is, indeed, of the first importance for the celebrant in any phallic rite to be able to complete the act without even once allowing a sexual or sensual thought to invade his mind. The mind must be as absolutely detached from one's own body as it is from another person's.

XI

Of musical instruments few are suitable. The human voice is the best, and the only one which can be usefully employed in chorus. Anything like an orchestra implies infinite rehearsal, and introduces an atmosphere of artificiality. The organ is a worthy solo instrument, and is an orchestra in itself, while its tone and associations favour the religious idea.

The violin is the most useful of all, for its every mood expresses the hunger for the infinite, and yet it is so mobile that it has a greater emotional range than any of its competitors. Accompaniment must be dispensed with, unless a harpist be available.

The harmonium is a horrible instrument, if only because of its associations; and the piano is like unto it, although, if unseen and played by a Paderewski, it would serve. The trumpet and the bell are excellent, to startle, at the crisis of a ceremony.

Hot, drubbing, passionate, in a different class of ceremony, a class more intense and direct, but on the whole less exalted, the tom-tom stands alone. It combines well with the practice of mantra, and is the best accompaniment for any sacred dance.

XII

Of sacred dances the most practical for a gathering is the seated dance. One sits cross-legged on the floor, and sways to and fro from the hips in time with the mantra. A solo or duet of dancers as a spectacle rather distracts from this exercise. I would suggest a very small and very brilliant light on the floor in the middle of the room. Such a room is best floored with mosaic marble; an ordinary Freemason's Lodge carpet is not a bad thing.

The eyes, if they see anything at all, see then only the rhythmical or mechanical squares leading in perspective to the simple unwinking light.

The swinging of the body with the mantra (which has a habit of rising and falling as if of its own accord in a very weird way) becomes more accentuated; ultimately a curiously spasmodic stage occurs, and then the consciousness flickers and goes out; perhaps breaks through into the divine consciousness, perhaps is merely recalled to itself by some variable in external impression. The above is a very simple description of a very simple and earnest form of ceremony, based entirely upon rhythm.

It is very easy to prepare, and its results are usually very encouraging for the beginner.

XIII

Wine being a mocker and strong drink raging, its use is more likely to lead to trouble than mere music.

One essential difficulty is dosage. One needs exactly enough; and, as Blake points out, one can only tell what is enough by taking too much. For each man the dose varies enormously; so does it for the same man at different times.

The ceremonial escape from this is to have a noiseless attendant to bear the bowl of libation, and present it to each in turn, at frequent intervals.

Small doses should be drunk, and the bowl passed on, taken as the worshipper deems advisable. Yet the cup-bearer should be an initiate, and use his own discretion before presenting the bowl. The slightest sign that intoxication is mastering the man should be a sign to him to pass that man. This practice can be easily fitted to the ceremony previously described.

If desired, instead of wine, the elixir introduced by me to Europe may be employed. But its results, if used in this way, have not as yet been thoroughly studied. It is my immediate purpose to repair this neglect.

XIV

The sexual excitement, which must complete the harmony of method, offers a more difficult problem.

It is exceptionally desirable that the actual bodily movements involved should be decorous in the highest sense, and many people are so ill-trained that they will be unable to regard such a ceremony with any but critical or lascivious eyes; either would be fatal to all the good already done. It is presumably better to wait until all present are greatly exalted before risking a profanation.

It is not desirable, in my opinion, that the ordinary worshippers should celebrate in public. The sacrifice should be single. Whether or no ...

XV

Thus far had I written when the distinguished poet, whose conversation with me upon the Mysteries had incited me to jot down these few rough notes, knocked at my door. I told him that I was at work on the ideas suggested by him, and that --- well, I was rather stuck. He asked permission to glance at the MS. (for he reads English fluently, though speaking but a few words), and having done so, kindled and said: "If you come with me now, we will finish your essay." Glad enough of any excuse to stop working, the more plausible the better, I hastened to take down my coat and hat. "By the way," he remarked in the automobile, "I take it that you do not mind giving me the Word of Rose Croix." Surprised, I exchanged the secrets of I.N.R.I. with him. "And now, very excellent and perfect Prince," he said, "what follows is under this seal." And he gave me the most solemn of all Masonic tokens. "You are about," said he, "to compare your ideal with our real." He touched a bell. The automobile stopped, and we got out. He dismissed the chauffeur. "Come," he said, "we have a brisk half-mile." We walked through thick woods to an old house, where we were greeted in silence by a gentleman who, though in court dress, wore a very "practicable" sword. On satisfying him, we were passed through a corridor to an anteroom, where another armed guardian awaited us. He, after a further examination, proceeded to offer me a court dress, the insignia of a Sovereign Prince of Rose Croix, and a garter and mantle, the former of green silk, the latter of green velvet, and lined with cerise silk. "It is a low mass," whispered the guardian. In this anteroom were three or four others, both ladies and gentlemen, busily robing.

In a third room we found a procession formed, and joined it. There were twenty-six of us in all. Passing a final guardian we reached the chapel itself, at whose entrance stood a young man and a young woman, both dressed in simple robes of white silk embroidered with gold, red and blue. The former bore a torch of resinous wood, the latter sprayed us as we passed with attar of roses from a cup.

The room in which we now were had at one time been a chapel; so much its shape declared. But the high altar was covered with a cloth that displayed the Rose and Cross, while above it were ranged seven candelabra, each of seven branches.

The stalls had been retained; and at each knight's hand burned a taper of rose-coloured wax, and a bouquet of roses was before him.

In the centre of the nave was a great cross --- a "calvary cross of ten squares," measuring, say, six feet by five --- painted in red upon a white board, at whose edge were rings through which passed gilt staves. At each corner was a banner, bearing lion, bull, eagle and man, and from the top of their staves sprang a canopy of blue, wherein were figured in gold the twelve emblems of the Zodiac.

Knights and Dames being installed, suddenly a bell tinkled in the architrave. Instantly all rose. The doors opened at a trumpet peal from without, and a herald advanced, followed by the High Priest and Priestess.

The High Priest was a man of nearly sixty years, if I may judge by the white beard; but he walked with the springy yet assured step of the thirties. The High Priestess, a proud, tall sombre woman of perhaps thirty summers, walked by his side, their hands raised and touching as in the minuet. Their trains were borne by the two youths who had admitted us.

All this while an unseen organ played an Introit.

This ceased as they took their places at the altar. They faced West, waiting.

On the closing of the doors the armed guard, who was clothed in a scarlet robe instead of green, drew his sword, and went up and down the aisle, chanting exorcisms and swinging the great sword. All present drew their swords and faced outward, holding the points in front of them. This part of the ceremony appeared interminable.

When it was over the girl and boy reappeared; bearing, the one a bowl, the other a censer. Singing some litany or other, apparently in Greek, though I could not catch the words, they purified and consecrated the chapel.

Now the High Priest and High Priestess began a litany in rhythmic lines of equal length. At each third response they touched hands in a peculiar manner; at each seventh they kissed. The twenty-first was a complete embrace. The bell tinkled in the architrave; and they parted. The High Priest then took from the altar a flask curiously shaped to imitate a phallus. The High Priestess knelt and presented a boat-shaped cup of gold. He knelt opposite her, and did not pour from the flask.

Now the Knights and Dames began a long litany; first a Dame in treble, then a Knight in bass, then a response in chorus of all present with the organ.

This Chorus was:

EVOE HO, IACCHE! EPELTHON, EPELTHON, EVOE, IAO! Again and again it rose and fell. Towards its close, whether by "stage effect" or no I could not swear, the light over the altar grew rosy, then purple. The High Priest sharply and suddenly threw up his hand; instant silence.

He now poured out the wine from the flask. The High Priestess gave it to the girl attendant, who bore it to all present. This was no ordinary wine. It has been said of vodki that it looks like water and tastes like fire. With this wine the reverse is the case. It was of a rich fiery gold in which flames of light danced and shook, but its taste was limpid and pure like fresh spring water. No sooner had I drunk of it, however, that I began to tremble. It was a most astonishing sensation; I can imagine a man feel thus as he awaits his executioner, when he has passed through fear, and is all excitement.

I looked down my stall, and saw that each was similarly affected. During the libation the High Priestess sang a hymn, again in Greek. This time I recognized the words; they were those of an ancient Ode to Aphrodite.

The boy attendant now descended to the red cross, stooped and kissed it; then he danced upon it in such a way that he seemed to be tracing the patterns of a marvellous rose of gold, for the percussion caused a shower of bright dust to fall from the canopy. Meanwhile the litany (different words, but the same chorus) began again. This time it was a duet between the High Priest and Priestess. At each chorus Knights and Dames bowed low. The girl moved round continuously, and the bowl passed. This ended in the exhaustion of the boy, who fell fainting on the cross. The girl immediately took the bowl and put it to his lips. Then she raised him, and, with the assistance of the Guardian of the Sanctuary, led him out of the chapel.

The bell again tinkled in the architrave.

The herald blew a fanfare.

The High Priest and High Priestess moved stately to each other and embraced, in the act unloosing the heavy golden robes which they wore. These fell, twin lakes of gold. I now saw her dressed in a garment of white watered silk, lined throughout (as it appeared later) with ermine.

The High Priest's vestment was an elaborate embroidery of every colour, harmonized by exquisite yet robust art. He wore also a breastplate corresponding to the canopy; a sculptured "beast" at each corner in gold, while the twelve signs of the Zodiac were symbolized by the stones of the breastplace.

The bell tinkled yet again, and the herald again sounded his trumpet. The celebrants moved hand in hand down the nave while the organ thundered forth its solemn harmonies.

All the knights and Dames rose and gave the secret sign of the Rose Croix.

It was at this part of the ceremony that things began to happen to me.

I became suddenly aware that my body had lost both weight and tactile sensibility. My consciousness seemed to be situated no longer in my body. I "mistook myself," if I may use the phrase, for one of the stars in the canopy.

In this way I missed seeing the celebrants actually approach the cross. The bell tinkled again; I came back to myself, and then I saw that the High Priestess, standing at the foot of the cross, had thrown her robe over it, so that the cross was no longer visible. There was only a board covered with ermine. She was now naked but for her coloured and jewelled head-dress and the heavy torque of gold about her neck, and the armlets and anklets that matched it. She began to sing in a soft strange tongue, so low and smoothly that in my partial bewilderment I could not hear all; but I caught a few words, Io Paian! Io Pan! and a phrase in which the words Iao Sabao ended emphatically a sentence in which I caught the words Eros, Thelema and Sebazo.

While she did this she unloosed the breastplate and gave it to the girl attendant. The robe followed; I saw that they were naked and unashamed. For the first time there was absolute silence. Now, from an hundred jets surrounding the board poured forth a perfumed purple smoke. The world was wrapt in a fond gauze of mist, sacred as the clouds upon the mountains.

Then at a signal given by the High Priest, the bell tinkled once more. The celebrants stretched out their arms in the form of a cross, interlacing their fingers. Slowly they revolved through three circles and a half. She then laid him down upon the cross, and took her own appointed place.

The organ now again rolled forth its solemn music.

I was lost to everything. Only this I saw, that the celebrants made no expected motion. The movements were extremely small and yet extremely strong.

This must have continued for a great length of time. To me it seemed as if eternity itself could not contain the variety and depth of my experiences. Tongue nor pen could record them; and yet I am fain to attempt the impossible.

1. I was, certainly and undoubtedly, the star in the canopy. This star was an incomprehensibly enormous world of pure flame.

2. I suddenly realized that the star was of no size whatever. It was not that the star shrank, but that it (= I) became suddenly conscious of infinite space.

3. An explosion took place. I was in consequence a point of light, infinitely small, yet infinitely bright, and this point was "without position."

4. Consequently this point was ubiquitous, and there was a feeling of infinite bewilderment, blinded after a very long time by a gush of infinite rapture (I use the word "blinded" as if under constraint; I should have preferred to use the words "blotted out" or "overwhelmed" or "illuminated").

5. This infinite fullness --- I have not described it as such, but it was that --- was suddenly changed into a feeling of infinite emptiness, which became conscious as a yearning.

6. These two feelings began to alternate, always with suddenness, and without in any way overlapping, with great rapidity.

7. This alternation must have occurred fifty times --- I had rather have said an hundred.

8. The two feelings suddenly became one. Again the word explosion is the only one that gives any idea of it.

9. I now seemed to be conscious of everything at once, that it was at the same time "one" and "many." I say "at once," that is, I was not successively all things, but instantaneously.

10. This being, if I may call it being, seemed to drop into an infinite abyss of Nothing.

11. While this "falling" lasted, the bell suddenly tinkled three times. I instantly became my normal self, yet with a constant awareness, which has never left me to this hour, that the truth of the matter is not this normal "I" but "That" which is still dropping into Nothing. I am assured by those who know that I may be able to take up the thread if I attend another ceremony.

The tinkle died away. The girl attendant ran quickly forward and folded the ermine over the celebrants. The herald blew a fanfare, and the Knights and Dames left their stalls. Advancing to the board, we took hold of the gilded carrying poles, and followed the herald in procession out of the chapel, bearing the litter to a small side-chapel leading out of the middle anteroom, where we left it, the guard closing the doors.

In silence we disrobed, and left the house. About a mile through the woods we found my friend's automobile waiting.

I asked him, if that was a low mass, might I not be permitted to witness a High Mass?

"Perhaps," he answered with a curious smile, "if all they tell of you is true."

In the meanwhile he permitted me to describe the ceremony and its results as faithfully as I was able, charging me only to give no indication of the city near which it took place.

I am willing to indicate to initiates of the Rose Croix degree of Masonry under proper charter from the genuine authorities (for there are spurious Masons working under a forged charter) the address of a person willing to consider their fitness to affiliate to a Chapter practising similar rites.

XVI

I consider it supererogatory to continue my essay on the Mysteries and my analysis of "Energized Enthusiasm."

Liber YOD
Sub Figura DCCCXXXI

(This book was formerly called Vesta. It is referred to the path of Virgo and the letter Yod.)
I.

1. This is the book of drawing all to a point.
2. Herein are described three methods whereby the consciousness of the Many may be melted to that of the One.
II.
FIRST METHOD

0. Let a magical circle be constructed, and within it an upright Tau drawn upon the ground. Let this Tau be devised into 10 squares (See Liber CMLXIII., Illustration 1.)
1. Let the magician be armed with the Sword of Art.1
2. Let him wear the black robe of a Neophyte.
3. Let a single flame of camphor burn at the top of the Tau, and let there be no other light or ornament.{Note 1}
4. Let him "open" the Temple as in DCLXXI or in any other convenient manner.
5. Standing at the appropriate quarters, at the edge of the circle, let him banish the 5 elements by the appropriate rituals.
6. Standing at the edge of the circle, let him banish the 7 planets by the appropriate rituals. Let him face the actual position of each planet in the heavens at the time of his working.
7. Let him further banish the twelve signs of the Zodiac by the appropriate rituals, facing each sign in turn.
8. Let him at each of these 24 banishings make three circumambulations widdershins, with the signs of Horus and Harpocrates in the East as he passes it.

---------------- 1. In circumstances where this is inappropriate let him be armed with wand and lamp instead of as in text. --- N.
9. Let him advance to the square of Malkuth in the Tau, and perform a ritual of banishing Malkuth. But here let him not leave the square to circumambulate the circle, but use the formula and God-form of Harpocrates.
10. Let him advance in turn to the squares Jesod, Hod, Netzach, Tiphereth, Geburah, Chesed and banish each by appropriate rituals.
11. And let him know that such rituals include the pronunciation of the appropriate names of God backwards, and also a curse against the Sephira in respect of all that which it is, for that which distinguishes and separates it from Kether.
12. Advancing to the squares of Binah and Chokmah in turn, let him banish these also. And for that by now an awe and trembling shall have taken hold upon him, let him banish these by a supreme ritual of inestimable puissance; and let him beware exceedingly lest his will falter or his courage fail.
13. Finally, let him, advancing to the square of Kether, banish that also by what means he may. At the end whereof let him set his foot upon the light, extinguishing it1; and, as he falleth, let him fall within the circle. 
SECOND METHOD

1. Let the Hermit be seated in his Asana, robed, and let him meditate in turn upon every several part of his body until that part is so unreal to him that he no longer includes it in his comprehension of himself . For example if it be his right foot, let him touch that foot, and be alarmed, thinking, "A foot! ... foot! What is this foot? Surely I am not alone in the Hermitage!" And this practice should be carried out not only at the time of meditation, but during the day's work.
2. This meditation is to be assisted by reasoning; as "This foot is not I. If I should lose my foot, I should still be I. This foot is a mass of changing and decaying flesh, bone, skin, blood,

---------------- 1. If armed with wand and lamp let him extinguish the light with his hand. --- N.

lymph, etc. while I am the Unchanging and Immortal Spirit, uniform, not made, unbegotten, formless, self-luminous," etc.
3. This practice being perfect for each part of the body, let him combine his workings until the whole body is thus understood as the non-Ego and as illusion.
4. Let then the Hermit, seated in his Asana, meditate upon the Muladhara Cakkra and its correspondence as a power of the mind, and destroy it in the same manner as aforesaid. Also by reasoning: "This emotion (memory, imagination, intellect, will, as it may be) is not I. This emotion is transient: I am immovable. This emotion is passion. I am peace", and so on.
Let the other Cakkras in their turn be thus destroyed, each one with its mental or moral attribute.
5. In this let him be aided by his own psychological analysis, so that no part of his conscious being be thus left undestroyed. And on his thoroughness in this matter may turn his success.
6. Lastly, having drawn all his being into the highest Sahasrara Cakkra, let him remain eternally fixed in meditation thereupon. 7. AUM.
THIRD METHOD.

1. Let the Hermit stimulate each of the senses in turn, concentrating upon each until it ceases to stimulate.
(The senses of sight and touch are extremely difficult to conquer. In the end the Hermit must be utterly unable by any effort to see or feel the object of those senses, O.M.)
2. This being perfected, let him combine them two at a time. For example, let him chew ginger (taste and touch), and watch a waterfall (sight and hearing) and watch incense (sight and smell) and crush sugar in his teeth (taste and hearing) and so on.
3. These twenty-five practices being accomplished, let him combine them three at a time, then four at a time.
4. Lastly, let him combine all the senses in a single object. And herein may a sixth sense be included. He is then to withdraw himself entirely from all the stimulations, perinde ac cadaver, in spite of his own efforts to attach himself to them.
5. By this method it is said that the demons of the Ruach, that is, thoughts and memories, are inhibited, and We deny it not. But if so be that they arise, let him build a wall between himself and them according to the method.
6. Thus having stilled the voices of the Six, may he obtain in sense the subtlety of the Seventh.

7. AUMGN.

(We add the following, contributed by a friend at that time without the A: A: and its dependent orders. He worked out the method himself, and we think it may prove useful to many. O.M.)

(1) The beginner must first practise breathing regularly through the nose, at the same time trying hard to believe that the breath goes to the Ajna and not to the lungs.
The Pranayama exercises described in the Equinox Vol. I, No. 4, p. 101 must next be practised, always with the idea that Ajna is breathing.

Try to realise that power, not air, is being drawn into the Ajna, is being concentrated there during Kumbhakam, and is vivifying the Ajna during expiration. Try rather to increase the force of concentration in Ajna than to increase so excessively the length of Kumbhakam as this is dangerous if rashly undertaken.

(2) Walk slowly in a quiet place; realise that the legs are moving, and study their movements. Understand thoroughly that these movements are due to nerve messages sent down from the brain, and that the controlling power lies in the Ajna. The legs are automatic, like those of a wooden monkey: the power in Ajna is that which does the work, is that which walks. This is not hard to realise, and should be grasped firmly, ignoring all other walking sensations.

Apply this method to every other muscular movement.

(3) Lie flat on the back with the feet under a heavy piece of furniture. Keeping the spine straight and the arms in a line with the body, rise slowly to a sitting posture, by means of the force residing in the Ajna (i.e. try to prevent the mind dwelling one any other exertion or sensation.)

Then let the body slowly down to its original position. Repeat this two or three times, every night and morning, and slowly increase the number of repetitions.

(4) Try to transfer all bodily sensations to the Ajna, e.g., "I am cold" should mean "I feel cold", or better still, "I am aware of a sensation of cold" --- transfer this to the Ajna, "the Ajna is aware", etc.

(5) Pain if very slight may easily be transferred to the Ajna after a little practice. The best method for beginner is to imagine he has a pain in the body and then imagine that it passes directly into the Ajna. It does not pass through the intervening structures, but goes direct. After continual practice even severe pain may be transferred to the Ajna.

(6) Fix the mind on the base of the spine and then gradually move the thoughts upwards to the Ajna.

(In this meditation Ajna is a Holy of Holies, but it is dark and empty.)

Finally, strive hard to drive anger and other obsessing thoughts into the Ajna. Try to develop a tendency to think hard of Ajna when these thoughts attack the mind, and let Ajna conquer them.

Beware of thinking of "My Ajna". In these meditations and practices, Ajna does not belong to you; Ajna is the master and worker, you are the wooden monkey.

1

A Procession of the damned.

By the damned, I mean the excluded.

We shall have a procession of data that Science has excluded.

Battalions of the accursed, captained by pallid data that I have exhumed, will march. You'll read them—or they'll march. Some of them livid and some of them fiery and some of them rotten.

Some of them are corpses, skeletons, mummies, twitching, tottering, animated by companions that have been damned alive. There are giants that will walk by, though sound asleep. There are things that are theorems and things that are rags: they'll go by like Euclid arm in arm with the spirit of anarchy. Here and there will flit little harlots. Many are clowns. But many are of the highest respectability. Some are assassins. There are pale stenches and gaunt superstitions and mere shadows and lively malices: whims and amiabilities. The naïve and the pedantic and the bizarre and the grotesque and the sincere and the insincere, the profound and the puerile.

A stab and a laugh and the patiently folded hands of hopeless propriety.

The ultra-respectable, but the condemned, anyway.

The aggregate appearance is of dignity and dissoluteness: the aggregate voice is a defiant prayer: but the spirit of the whole is processional.

The power that has said to all these things that they are damned, is Dogmatic Science.

But they'll march.

The little harlots will caper, and freaks will distract attention, and the clowns will break the rhythm of the whole with their buffooneries—but the solidity of the procession as a whole: the impressiveness

p. 4

of things that pass and pass and pass, and keep on and keep on and keep on coming.

The irresistibleness of things that neither threaten nor jeer nor defy, but arrange themselves in mass-formations that pass and pass and keep on passing.

So, by the damned, I mean the excluded.

But by the excluded I mean that which will some day be the excluding.

Or everything that is, won't be.

And everything that isn't, will be—

But, of course, will be that which won't be—

It is our expression that the flux between that which isn't and that which won't be, or the state that is commonly and absurdly called "existence," is a rhythm of heavens and hells: that the damned won't stay damned; that salvation only precedes perdition. The inference is that some day our accursed tatterdemalions will be sleek angels. Then the sub-inference is that some later day, back they'll go whence they came.

It is our expression that nothing can attempt to be, except by attempting to exclude something else: that that which is commonly called "being" is a state that is wrought more or less definitely proportionately to the appearance of positive difference between that which is included and that which is excluded.

But it is our expression that there are no positive differences: that all things are like a mouse and a bug in the heart of a cheese. Mouse and a bug: no two things could seem more unlike. They're there a week, or they stay there a month: both are then only transmutations of cheese. I think we're all bugs and mice, and are only different expressions of an all-inclusive cheese.

Or that red is not positively different from yellow: is only another degree of whatever vibrancy yellow is a degree of: that red and yellow are continuous, or that they merge in orange.

So then that, if, upon the basis of yellowness and redness, Science should attempt to classify all phenomena, including all red things as veritable, and excluding all yellow things as false or illusory, the

p. 5

demarcation would have to be false and arbitrary, because things colored orange, constituting continuity, would belong on both sides of the attempted border-line.

As we go along, we shall be impressed with this:

That no basis for classification, or inclusion and exclusion, more reasonable than that of redness and yellowness has ever been conceived of.

Science has, by appeal to various bases, included a multitude of data. Had it not done so, there would be nothing with which to seem to be. Science has, by appeal to various bases, excluded a multitude of data. Then, if redness is continuous with yellowness: if every basis of admission is continuous with every basis of exclusion, Science must have excluded some things that are continuous with the accepted. In redness and yellowness, which merge in orangeness, we typify all tests, all standards, all means of forming an opinion—

Or that any positive opinion upon any subject is illusion built upon the fallacy that there are positive differences to judge by—That the quest of all intellection has been for something—a fact, a basis, a generalization, law, formula, a major premise that is positive: that the best that has ever been done has been to say that some things are self-evident—whereas, by evidence we mean the support of something else—

That this is the quest; but that it has never been attained; but that Science has acted, ruled, pronounced, and condemned as if it had been attained.

What is a house?

It is not possible to say what anything is, as positively distinguished from anything else, if there are no positive differences.

A barn is a house, if one lives in it. If residence constitutes houseness, because style of architecture does not, then a bird's nest is a house: and human occupancy is not the standard to judge by, because we speak of dogs' houses; nor material, because we speak of snow houses of Eskimos—or a shell is a house to a hermit crab—or was to the mollusk that made it—or things seemingly so positively different as the White House at Washington and a shell on the seashore are seen to be continuous.

So no one has ever been able to say what electricity is, for instance.

p. 6

[paragraph continues] It isn't anything, as positively distinguished from heat or magnetism or life. Metaphysicians and theologians and biologists have tried to define life. They have failed, because, in a positive sense, there is nothing to define: there is no phenomenon of life that is not, to some degree, manifest in chemism, magnetism, astronomic motions.

White coral islands in a dark blue sea.

Their seeming of distinctness: the seeming of individuality, or of positive difference one from another—but all are only projections from the same sea bottom. The difference between sea and land is not positive. In all water there is some earth: in all earth there is some water.

So then that all seeming things are not things at all, if all are inter-continuous, any more than is the leg of a table a thing in itself, if it is only a projection from something else: that not one of us is a real person, if, physically, we're continuous with environment; if, psychically, there is nothing to us but expression of relation to environment.

Our general expression has two aspects:

Conventional monism, or that all "things" that seem to have identity of their own are only islands that are projections from something underlying, and have no real outlines of their own.

But that all "things," though only projections, are projections that are striving to break away from the underlying that denies them identity of their own.

I conceive of one inter-continuous nexus, in which and of which all seeming things are only different expressions, but in which all things are localizations of one attempt to break away and become real things, or to establish entity or positive difference or final demarcation or unmodified independence—or personality or soul, as it is called in human phenomena—

That anything that tries to establish itself as a real, or positive, or absolute system, government, organization, self, soul, entity, individuality, can so attempt only by drawing a line about itself, or about the inclusions that constitute itself, and damning or excluding, or breaking away from, all other "things":

That, if it does not so act, it cannot seem to be;

p. 7

That, if it does so act, it falsely and arbitrarily and futilely and disastrously acts, just as would one who draws a circle in the sea, including a few waves, saying that the other waves, with which the included are continuous, are positively different, and stakes his life upon maintaining that the admitted and the damned are positively different.

Our expression is that our whole existence is animation of the local by an ideal that is realizable only in the universal: That, if all exclusions are false, because always are included and excluded continuous: that if all seeming of existence perceptible to us is the product of exclusion, there is nothing that is perceptible to us that really is: that only the universal can really be.

Our especial interest is in modern science as a manifestation of this one ideal or purpose or process:

That it has falsely excluded, because there are no positive standards to judge by: that it has excluded things that, by its own pseudo-standards, have as much right to come in as have the chosen.

Our general expression:

That the state that is commonly and absurdly called "existence," is a flow, or a current, or an attempt, from negativeness to positiveness, and is intermediate to both.

By positiveness we mean:

Harmony, equilibrium, order, regularity, stability, consistency, unity, realness, system, government, organization, liberty, independence, soul, self, personality, entity, individuality, truth, beauty, justice, perfection, definiteness—

That all that is called development, progress, or evolution is movement toward, or attempt toward, this state for which, or for aspects of which, there are so many names, all of which are summed up in the one word "positiveness."

At first this summing up may not be very readily acceptable. At first it may seem that all these words are not synonyms: that "harmony" may mean "order," but that by "independence," for instance, we do not mean "truth," or that by "stability" we do not mean "beauty," or "system," or "justice."

I conceive of one inter-continuous nexus, which expresses itself

p. 8

in astronomic phenomena, and chemic, biologic, psychic, sociologic: that it is everywhere striving to localize positiveness: that to this attempt in various fields of phenomena—which are only quasi-different—we give different names. We speak of the "system" of the planets, and not of their "government": but in considering a store, for instance, and its management, we see that the words are interchangeable. It used to be customary to speak of chemic equilibrium, but not of social equilibrium: that false demarcation has been broken down. We shall see that by all these words we mean the same state. As every-day conveniences, or in terms of common illusions, of course, they are not synonyms. To a child an earth worm is not an animal. It is to the biologist.

By "beauty," I mean that which seems complete.

Obversely, that the incomplete, or the mutilated, is the ugly.

Venus de Milo.

To a child she is ugly.

When a mind adjusts to thinking of her as a completeness, even though, by physiologic standards, incomplete, she is beautiful.

A hand thought of only as a hand, may seem beautiful.

Found on a battlefield—obviously a part—not beautiful.

But everything in our experience is only a part of something else that in turn is only a part of still something else—or that there is nothing beautiful in our experience: only appearances that are intermediate to beauty and ugliness—that only universality is complete: that only the complete is the beautiful: that every attempt to achieve beauty is an attempt to give to the local the attribute of the universal.

By stability, we mean the immovable and the unaffected. But all seeming things are only reactions to something else. Stability, too, then, can be only the universal, or that besides which there is nothing else. Though some things seem to have—or have—higher approximations to stability than have others, there are, in our experience, only various degrees of intermediateness to stability and instability. Every man, then, who works for stability under its various names of "permanency," "survival," duration," is striving to localize in something the state that is realizable only in the universal.

By independence, entity, and individuality, I can mean only that

p. 9

besides which there is nothing else, if given only two things, they must be continuous and mutually affective, if everything is only a reaction to something else, and any two things would be destructive of each other's independence, entity, or individuality.

All attempted organizations and systems and consistencies, some approximating far higher than others, but all only intermediate to Order and Disorder, fail eventually because of their relations with outside forces. All are attempted completenesses. If to all local phenomena there are always outside forces, these attempts, too, are realizable only in the state of completeness, or that to which there are no outside forces.

Or that all these words are synonyms, all meaning the state that we call the positive state—

That our whole "existence" is a striving for the positive state. The amazing paradox of it all:

That all things are trying to become the universal by excluding other things.

That there is only this one process, and that it does animate all expressions, in all fields of phenomena, of that which we think of r as one inter-continuous nexus:

The religious and their idea or ideal of the soul. They mean distinct, stable entity, or a state that is independent, and not a mere flux of vibrations or complex of reactions to environment, continuous with environment, merging away with an infinitude of other interdependent complexes.

But the only thing that would not merge away into something else would be that besides which there is nothing else.

That Truth is only another name for the positive state, or that the quest for Truth is the attempt to achieve positiveness:

Scientists who have thought that they were seeking Truth, but who were trying to find out astronomic, or chemic, or biologic truths. But Truth is that besides which there is nothing: nothing to modify it, nothing to question it, nothing to form an exception: the all-inclusive, the complete—

By Truth I mean the Universal.

So chemists have sought the true, or the real, and have always failed in their endeavors, because of the outside relations of chemical

p. 10

phenomena: have failed in the sense that never has a chemical law, without exceptions, been discovered: because chemistry is continuous with astronomy, physics, biology—For instance, if the sun should greatly change its distance from this earth, and if human life could survive, the familiar chemic formulas would no longer work out: a new science of chemistry would have to be learned

Or that all attempts to find Truth in the special are attempts to find the universal in the local.

And artists and their striving for positiveness, under the name of "harmony"—but their pigments that are oxidizing, or are responding to a deranging environment—or the strings of musical instruments that are differently and disturbingly adjusting to outside chemic and thermal and gravitational forces—again and again this oneness of all ideals, and that it is the attempt to be, or to achieve, locally, that which is realizable only universally. In our experience there is only intermediateness to harmony and discord. Harmony is that besides which there are no outside forces.

And nations that have fought with only one motive: for individuality, or entity, or to be real, final nations, not subordinate to, or parts of, other nations. And that nothing but intermediateness has ever been attained, and that history is record of failures of this one attempt, because there always have been outside forces, or other nations contending for the same goal.

As to physical things, chemic, mineralogic, astronomic, it is not customary to say that they act to achieve Truth or Entity, but it is understood that all motions are toward Equilibrium: that there is no motion except toward Equilibrium, of course always away from some other approximation to Equilibrium.

All biologic phenomena act to adjust: there are no biologic actions other than adjustments.

Adjustment is another name for Equilibrium. Equilibrium is the Universal, or that which has nothing external to derange it. But that all that we call "being" is motion: and that all motion is the expression, not of equilibrium, but of equilibrating, or of equilibrium unattained: that life-motions are expressions of equilibrium unattained: that all thought relates to the unattained: that to have what is called being in our quasi-state, is not to be in the

p. 11

positive sense, or is to be intermediate to Equilibrium and Inequilibrium.

So then:

That all phenomena in our intermediate state, or quasi-state, represent this one attempt to organize, stabilize, harmonize, individualize—or to positivize, or to become real:

That only to have seeming is to express failure or intermediateness to final failure and final success;

That every attempt—that is observable—is defeated by Continuity, or by outside forces—or by the excluded that are continuous with the included:

That our whole "existence" is an attempt by the relative to be the absolute, or by the local to be the universal.

In this book, my interest is in this attempt as manifested in modern science:

That it has attempted to be real, true, final, complete, absolute: That, if the seeming of being, here, in our quasi-state, is the product of exclusion that is always false and arbitrary, if always are included and excluded continuous, the whole seeming system, or entity, of modern science is only quasi-system, or quasi-entity, wrought by the same false and arbitrary process as that by which the still less positive system that preceded it, or the theological system, wrought the illusion of its being.

In this book, I assemble some of the data that I think are of the falsely and arbitrarily excluded.

The data of the damned.

I have gone into the outer darkness of scientific and philosophical transactions and proceedings, ultra-respectable, but covered with the dust of disregard. I have descended into journalism. I have come back with the quasi-souls of lost data.

They will march.

As to the logic of our expressions to come—

That there is only quasi-logic in our mode of seeming:

That nothing ever has been proved—

Because there is nothing to prove.

When I say that there is nothing to prove, I mean that to those

p. 12

who accept Continuity, or the merging away of all phenomena into other phenomena, without positive demarcations one from another, there is, in a positive sense, no one thing. There is nothing to prove.

For instance nothing can be proved to be an animal—because animalness and vegetableness are not positively different. There are some expressions of life that are as much vegetable as animal, or that represent the merging of animalness and vegetableness. There is then no positive test, standard, criterion, means of forming an opinion. As distinct from vegetables, animals do not exist. There is nothing to prove. Nothing could be proved to be good, for instance. There is nothing in our "existence" that is good, in a positive sense, or as really outlined from evil. If to forgive be good in times of peace, it is evil in wartime. There is nothing to prove: good in our experience is continuous with, or is only another aspect of evil.

As to what I'm trying to do now—I accept only. If I can't see universally, I only localize.

So, of course then, that nothing ever has been proved:

That theological pronouncements are as much open to doubt as ever they were, but that, by a hypnotizing process, they became dominant over the majority of minds in their era;

That, in a succeeding era, the laws, dogmas, formulas, principles, of materialistic science never were proved, because they are only localizations simulating the universal; but that the leading minds of their era of dominance were hypnotized into more or less firmly believing them.

Newton's three laws, and that they are attempts to achieve positiveness, or to defy and break Continuity, and are as unreal as are all other attempts to localize the universal:

That, if every observable body is continuous, mediately or immediately, with all other bodies, it cannot be influenced only by its own inertia, so that there is no way of knowing what the phenomena of inertia may be; that, if all things are reacting to an infinitude of forces, there is no way of knowing what the effects of only one impressed force would be; that if every reaction is continuous with its action, it cannot be conceived of as a whole, and

p. 13

that there is no way of conceiving what it might be equal and opposite to—

Or that Newton's three laws are three articles of faith;

Or that demons and angels and inertias and reactions are all mythological characters;

But that, in their eras of dominance, they were almost as firmly believed in as if they had been proved.

 

Enormities and preposterousnesses will march.

They will be "proved" as well as Moses or Darwin or Lyell ever "proved" anything.

We substitute acceptance for belief.

Cells of an embryo take on different appearances in different eras.

The more firmly established, the more difficult to change.

That social organism is embryonic.

That firmly to believe is to impede development.

That only temporarily to accept is to facilitate.

But:

Except that we substitute acceptance for belief, our methods will be the conventional methods; the means by which every belief has been formulated and supported: or our methods will be the methods of theologians and savages and scientists and children. Because, if all phenomena are continuous, there can be no positively different methods. By the inconclusive means and methods of cardinals and fortune tellers and evolutionists and peasants, methods which must be inconclusive, if they relate always to the local, and if there is nothing local to conclude, we shall write this book.

If it function as an expression of its era, it will prevail.

All sciences begin with attempts to define.

Nothing ever has been defined.

Because there is nothing to define.

Darwin wrote The Origin of Species.

He was never able to tell what he meant by a "species."

p. 14

It is not possible to define.

Nothing has ever been finally found out.

Because there is nothing final to find out.

It's like looking for a needle that no one ever lost in a haystack that never was—

But that all scientific attempts really to find out something, whereas really there is nothing to find out, are attempts, themselves, really to be something.

A seeker of Truth. He will never find it. But the dimmest of possibilities—he may himself become Truth.

Or that science is more than an inquiry:

That it is a pseudo-construction, or a quasi-organization: that it is an attempt to break away and locally establish harmony, stability, equilibrium, consistency, entity

Dimmest of possibilities—that it may succeed.

That ours is a pseudo-existence, and that all appearances in it partake of its essential fictitiousness—

But that some appearances approximate far more highly to the positive state than do others.

We conceive of all "things" as occupying gradations, or steps in series between positiveness and negativeness, or realness and unrealness: that some seeming things are more nearly consistent, just, beautiful, unified, individual, harmonious, stable—than others.

We are not realists. We are not idealists. We are intermediatists—that nothing is real, but that nothing is unreal: that all phenomena are approximations one way or the other between realness and unrealness.

So then:

That our whole quasi-existence is an intermediate stage between positiveness and negativeness or realness and unrealness. Like purgatory, I think.

But in our summing up, which was very sketchily done, we omitted to make clear that Realness is an aspect of the positive state.

By Realness, I mean that which does not merge away into something else, and that which is not partly something else: that which

p. 15

is not a reaction to, or an imitation of, something else. By a real hero, we mean one who is not partly a coward, or whose actions and motives do not merge away into cowardice. But, if in Continuity, all things do merge, by Realness, I mean the Universal, besides which there is nothing with which to merge.

That, though the local might be universalized, it is not conceivable that the universal can be localized: but that high approximations there may be, and that these approximate successes may be translated out of Intermediateness into Realness—quite as, in a relative sense, the industrial world recruits itself by translating out of unrealness, or out of the seemingly less real imaginings of inventors, machines which seem, when set up in factories, to have more of Realness than they had when only imagined.

That all progress, if all progress is toward stability, organization, harmony, consistency, or positiveness, is the attempt to become real.

So, then, in general metaphysical terms, our expression is that, like a purgatory, all that is commonly called "existence," which we call Intermediateness, is quasi-existence, neither real nor unreal, but expression of attempt to become real, or to generate for or recruit a real existence.

Our acceptance is that Science, though usually thought of so specifically, or in its own local terms, usually supposed to be a prying into old bones, bugs, unsavory messes, is an expression of this one spirit animating all Intermediateness: that, if Science could absolutely exclude all data but its own present data, or that which is assimilable with the present quasi-organization, it would be a real system, with positively definite outlines—it would be real.

Its seeming approximation to consistency, stability, system—positiveness or realness—is sustained by damning the irreconcilable or the unassimilable—

All would be well.

All would be heavenly—

If the damned would only stay damned.


In the autumn of 1883, and for years afterward, occurred brilliant-colored sunsets, such as had never been seen before within the memory of all observers. Also there were blue moons.

I think that one is likely to smile incredulously at the notion of blue moons. Nevertheless they were as common as were green suns in 1883.

Science had to account for these unconventionalities. Such publications as Nature and Knowledge were besieged with inquiries.

I suppose, in Alaska and in the South Sea Islands, all the medicine men were similarly upon trial.

Something had to be thought of.

Upon the 28th of August, 1883, the volcano of Krakatoa, of the Straits of Sunda, had blown up.

Terrific.

We're told that the sound was heard 2,000 miles, and that 36,380 persons were killed. Seems just a little unscientific, or impositive, to me: marvel to me we're not told 2,163 miles and 36,387 persons. The volume of smoke that went up must have been visible to other planets—or, tormented with our crawlings and scurryings, the earth complained to Mars; swore a vast black oath at us.

In all text-books that mention this occurrence—no exception so far so I have read—it is said that the extraordinary atmospheric effects of 1883 were first noticed in the last of August or the first of September.

That makes a difficulty for us.

It is said that these phenomena were caused by particles of volcanic dust that were cast high in the air by Krakatoa.

This is the explanation that was agreed upon in 1883—

But for seven years the atmospheric phenomena continued—Except that, in the seven, there was a lapse of several years and where was the volcanic dust all that time?

p. 17

You'd think that such a question as that would make trouble?

Then you haven't studied hypnosis. You have never tried to demonstrate to a hypnotic that a table is not a hippopotamus. According to our general acceptance, it would be impossible to demonstrate such a thing. Point out a hundred reasons for saying that a hippopotamus is not a table: you'll have to end up agreeing that neither is a table a table—it only seems to be a table. Well, that's what the hippopotamus seems to be. So how can you prove that something is not something else, when neither is something else some other thing? There's nothing to prove.

This is one of the profundities that we advertised in advance.

You can oppose an absurdity only with some other absurdity. But Science is established preposterousness. We divide all intellection: the obviously preposterousness and the established.

But Krakatoa: that's the 'explanation that the scientists gave. I don't know what whopper the medicine men told.

We see, from the start, the very strong inclination of science to deny, as much as it can, external relations of this earth.

This book is an assemblage of data of external relations of this earth. We take the position that our data have been damned, upon no consideration for individual merits or demerits, but in conformity with a general attempt to hold out for isolation of this earth. This is attempted positiveness. We take the position that science can no more succeed than, in a similar endeavor, could the Chinese, or than could the United States. So then, with only pseudo-consideration of the phenomena of 1883, or as an expression of positivism in its aspect of isolation, or unrelatedness, scientists have perpetrated such an enormity as suspension of volcanic dust seven years in the air—disregarding the lapse of several years—rather than to admit the arrival of dust from somewhere beyond this earth. Not that scientists themselves have ever achieved positiveness, in its aspect of unitedness, among themselves—because Nordenskiold, before 1883, wrote a great deal upon his theory of cosmic dust, and Prof. Cleveland Abbe contended against the Krakatoan explanation—but that this is the orthodoxy of the main body of scientists.

My own chief reason for indignation here:

p. 18

That this preposterous explanation interferes with some of my own enormities.

It would cost me too much explaining, if I should have to admit that this earth's atmosphere has such sustaining power.

Later, we shall have data of things that have gone up in the air and that have stayed up—somewhere—weeks—months—but not by the sustaining power of this earth's atmosphere. For instance, the turtle of Vicksburg. It seems to me that it would be ridiculous to think of a good-sized turtle hanging, for three or four months, upheld only by the air, over the town of Vicksburg. When it comes to the horse and the barn—I think that they'll be classics some day, but I can never accept that a horse and a barn could float several months in this earth's atmosphere.

The orthodox explanation:

See the Report of the Krakatoa Committee of the Royal Society. It comes out absolutely for the orthodox explanation—absolutely and beautifully, also expensively. There are 492 pages in the "Report," and 40 plates, some of them marvelously colored. It was issued after an investigation that took five years. You couldn't think of anything done more efficiently, artistically, authoritatively. The mathematical parts are especially impressive: distribution of the dust of Krakatoa; velocity of translation and rates of subsidence; altitudes and persistences—

Annual Register, 1883-105:

That the atmospheric effects that have been attributed to Krakatoa were seen in Trinidad before the eruption occurred;

Knowledge, 5-418:

That they were seen in Natal, South Africa, six months before the eruption.

Inertia and its inhospitality.

Or raw meat should not be fed to babies.

We shall have a few data initiatorily.

I fear me that the horse and the barn were a little extreme for our budding liberalities.

The outrageous is the reasonable, if introduced politely.

Hailstones, for instance. One reads in the newspapers of hailstones

p. 19

the size of hens’ eggs. One smiles. Nevertheless I will engage to list one hundred instances, from the Monthly Weather Review, of hailstones the size of hens’ eggs. There is an account in Nature, Nov. I, 1894, of hailstones that weighed almost two pounds each. See Chambers' Encyclopedia for three-pounders. Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1870-479—two-pounders authenticated, and six-pounders reported. At Seringapatam, India, about the year 1800, fell a hailstone

I fear me, I fear me: this is one of the profoundly damned. I blurt out something that should, perhaps, be withheld for several hundred pages—but that damned thing was the size of an elephant.

We laugh.

Or snowflakes. Size of saucers. Said to have fallen at Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 24, 1891. One smiles.

"In Montana, in the winter of 1887, fell snowflakes 15 inches across, and 8 inches thick." (Monthly Weather Review, 1915-73.)

In the topography of intellection, I should say that what we call knowledge is ignorance surrounded by laughter.

Black rains—red rains—the fall of a thousand tons of butter.

Jet-black snow—pink snow—blue hailstones—hailstones flavored like oranges.

Punk and silk and charcoal.

About one hundred years ago, if anyone was so credulous as to think that stones had ever fallen from the sky, he was reasoned with:

In the first place there are no stones in the sky:

Therefore no stones can fall from the sky.

Or nothing more reasonable or scientific or logical than that could be said upon any subject. The only trouble is the universal trouble: that the major premise is not real, or is intermediate somewhere between realness and unrealness.

In 1772, a committee, of whom Lavoisier was a member, was appointed by the French Academy, to investigate a report that a stone had fallen from the sky at Luce, France. Of all attempts at positiveness, in its aspect of isolation, I don't know of anything

p. 20

that has been fought harder for than the notion of this earth's unrelatedness. Lavoisier analyzed the stone of Luce. The exclusionists’ explanation at that time was that stones do not fall from the sky: that luminous objects may seem to fall, and that hot stones may be picked up where a luminous object seemingly had landed—only lightning striking a stone, heating, even melting it.

The stone of Luce showed signs of fusion.

Lavoisier's analysis "absolutely proved" that this stone had not fallen: that it had been struck by lightning.

So, authoritatively, falling stones were damned. The stock means of exclusion remained the explanation of lightning that was seen to strike something—that had been upon the ground in the first place.

But positiveness and the fate of every positive statement. It is not customary to think of damned stones raising an outcry against a sentence of exclusion, but, subjectively, aerolites did—or data of them bombarded the walls raised against them—

Monthly Review, 1796-426

"The phenomenon which is the subject of the remarks before us will seem to most persons as little worthy of credit as any that could be offered. The falling of large stones from the sky, without any assignable cause of their previous ascent, seems to partake so much of the marvelous as almost entirely to exclude the operation of known and natural agents. Yet a body of evidence is here brought to prove that such events have actually taken place, and we ought not to withhold from it a proper degree of attention."

The writer abandons the first, or absolute, exclusion, and modifies it with the explanation that the day before a reported fall of stones in Tuscany, June 16, 1794, there had been an eruption of Vesuvius—

Or that stones do fall from the sky, but that they are stones that have been raised to the sky from some other part of the earth's surface by whirlwinds or by volcanic action.

It's more than one hundred and twenty years later. I know of no aerolite that has ever been acceptably traced to terrestrial origin.

Falling stones had to be undamned—though still with a reservation that held out for exclusion of outside forces.

p. 21

One may have the knowledge of a Lavoisier, and still not be able to analyze, not be able even to see, except conformably with the hypnoses, or the conventional reactions against hypnoses, of one's era.

We believe no more.

We accept.

Little by little the whirlwind and volcano explanations had to be abandoned, but so powerful was this exclusion-hypnosis, sentence of damnation, or this attempt at positiveness, that far into our own times some scientists, notably Prof. Lawrence Smith and Sir Robert Ball, continued to hold out against all external origins, asserting that nothing could fall to this earth, unless it had been cast up or whirled up from some other part of this earth's surface.

It's as commendable as anything ever has been—by which I mean it's intermediate to the commendable and the censurable.

It's virginal.

Meteorites, data of which were once of the damned, have been admitted, but the common impression of them is only a retreat of attempted exclusion: that only two kinds of substance fall from the sky: metallic and stony: that the metallic objects are of iron and nickel—

Butter and paper and wool and silk and resin.

We see, to start with, that the virgins of science have fought and wept and screamed against external relations—upon two grounds: There in the first place;

Or up from one part of this earth's surface and down to another.

As late as November, 1902, in Nature Notes, 13-231, a member of the Selborne Society still argued that meteorites do not fall from the sky; that they are masses of iron upon the ground "in the first place," that attract lightning; that the lightning is seen, and is mistaken for a falling, luminous object—

By progress we mean rape.

Butter and beef and blood and a stone with strange inscriptions upon it.

3

So then, it is our expression that Science relates to real knowledge no more than does the growth of a plant, or the organization of a department store, or the development of a nation: that all are assimilative, or organizing, or systematizing processes that represent different attempts to attain the positive state—the state commonly called heaven, I suppose I mean.

There can be no real science where there are indeterminate variables, but every variable is, in finer terms, indeterminate, or irregular, if only to have the appearance of being in Intermediateness is to express regularity unattained. The invariable, or the real and stable, would be nothing at all in Intermediateness—rather as, but in relative terms, an undistorted interpretation of external sounds in the mind of a dreamer could not continue to exist in a dreaming mind, because that touch of relative realness would be of awakening and not of dreaming. Science is the attempt to awaken to realness, wherein it is attempt to find regularity and uniformity. Or the regular and uniform would be that which has nothing external to disturb it. By the universal we mean the real. Or the notion is that the underlying super-attempt, as expressed in Science, is indifferent to the subject-matter of Science: that the attempt to regularize is the vital spirit. Bugs and stars and chemical messes: that they are only quasi-real, and that of them there is nothing real to know; but that systematization of pseudo-data is approximation to realness or final awakening

Or a dreaming mind—and its centaurs and canary birds that turn into giraffes—there could be no real biology upon such subjects, but attempt, in a dreaming mind, to systematize such appearances would be movement toward awakening—if better mental co-ordination is all that we mean by the state of being awake—relatively awake.

So it is, that having attempted to systematize, by ignoring externality

p. 23

to the greatest possible degree, the notion of things dropping in upon this earth, from externality, is as unsettling and as unwelcome to Science as—tin horns blowing in upon a musician's relatively symmetric composition—flies alighting upon a painter's attempted harmony, and tracking colors one into another—suffragist getting up and making a political speech at a prayer meeting.

If all things are of a oneness, which is a state intermediate to unrealness and realness, and if nothing has succeeded in breaking away and establishing entity for itself, and could not continue to "exist" in intermediateness, if it should succeed, any more than could the born still at the same time be the uterine, I of course know of no positive difference between Science and Christian Science—and the attitude of both toward the unwelcome is the same—"it does not exist."

A Lord Kelvin and a Mrs. Eddy, and something not to their liking—it does not exist.

Of course not, we Intermediates say: but, also, that, in Intermediateness, neither is there absolute non-existence.

Or a Christian Scientist and a toothache—neither exists in the final sense: also neither is absolutely non-existent, and, according to our therapeutics, the one that more highly approximates to realness will win.

A secret of power—

I think it's another profundity.

Do you want power over something?

Be more nearly real than it.

We'll begin with yellow substances that have fallen upon this earth: we'll see whether our data of them have a higher approximation to realness than have the dogmas of those who deny their existence—that is, as products from somewhere external to this earth.

In mere impressionism we take our stand. We have no positive tests nor standards. Realism in art: realism in science—they pass away. In 1859, the thing to do was to accept Darwinism; now many biologists are revolting and trying to conceive of something

p. 24

else. The thing to do was to accept it in its day, but Darwinism of course was never proved:

The fittest survive.

What is meant by the fittest?

Not the strongest; not the cleverest—

Weakness and stupidity everywhere survive.

There is no way of determining fitness except in that a thing does survive.

"Fitness," then, is only another name for "survival."

Darwinism:

That survivors survive.

Although Darwinism, then, seems positively baseless, or absolutely irrational, its massing of supposed data, and its attempted coherence approximate more highly to Organization and Consistency than did the inchoate speculations that preceded it.

Or that Columbus never proved that the earth is round.

Shadow of the earth on the moon?

No one has ever seen it in its entirety. The earth's shadow is much larger than the moon. If the periphery of the shadow is curved—but the convex moon—a straight-edged object will cast a curved shadow upon a surface that is convex.

All the other so-called proofs may be taken up in the same way. It was impossible for Columbus to prove that the earth is round. It was not required: only that with a higher seeming of positiveness than that of his opponents, he should attempt. The thing to do, in 1492, was nevertheless to accept that beyond Europe, to the west, were other lands.

I offer for acceptance, as something concordant with the spirit of this first quarter of the 10th century, the expression that beyond this earth are—other lands—from which come things as, from America, float things to Europe.

As to yellow substances that have fallen upon this earth, the endeavor to exclude extra-mundane origins is the dogma that all yellow rains and yellow snows are colored with pollen from this earth's pine trees. Symons’ Meteorological Magazine is especially prudish in this respect and regards as highly improper all advances made by other explainers.

p. 25

Nevertheless, the Monthly Weather Review, May, 1877, reports a golden-yellow fall, of Feb. 27, 1877, at Peckloh, Germany, in which four kinds of organisms, not pollen, were the coloring matter. There were minute things shaped like arrows, coffee beans, horns, and disks.

They may have been symbols. They may have been objective hieroglyphics—

Mere passing fancy—let it go—

In the Annales de Chimie, 85-288, there is a list of rains said to have contained sulphur. I have thirty or forty other notes. I'll not use one of them. I'll admit that every one of them is upon a fall of pollen. I said, to begin with, that our methods would be the methods of theologians and scientists, and they always begin with an appearance of liberality. I grant thirty or forty points to start with. I'm as liberal as any of them—or that my liberality won't cost me anything—the enormousness of the data that we shall have.

Or just to look over a typical instance of this dogma, and the way it works out:

In the American Journal of Science, 1-42-196, we are told of a yellow substance that fell by the bucketful upon a vessel, one "windless" night in June, in Pictou Harbor, Nova Scotia. The writer analyzed the substance, and it was found to "give off nitrogen and ammonia and an animal odor."

Now, one of our Intermediatist principles, to start with, is that so far from positive, in the aspect of Homogeneousness, are all substances, that, at least in what is called an elementary sense, anything can be found anywhere. Mahogany logs on the coast of Greenland; bugs of a valley on the top of Mt. Blanc; atheists at a prayer meeting; ice in India. For instance, chemical analysis can reveal that almost any dead man was poisoned with arsenic, we'll say, because there is no stomach without some iron, lead, tin, gold, arsenic in it and of it—which, of course, in a broader sense, doesn't matter much, because a certain number of persons must, as a restraining influence, be executed for murder every year; and, if detectives aren't able really to detect anything, illusion of their

p. 26

success is all that is necessary, and it is very honorable to give up one's life for society as a whole.

The chemist who analyzed the substance of Pictou sent a sample to the Editor of the Journal. The Editor of course found pollen in it.

My own acceptance is that there'd have to be some pollen in it: that nothing could very well fall through the air, in June, near the pine forests of Nova Scotia, and escape all floating spores of pollen. But the Editor does not say that this substance "contained" pollen. He disregards "nitrogen, ammonia, and an animal odor," and says that the substance was pollen. For the sake of our thirty or forty tokens of liberality, or pseudo-liberality, if we can't be really liberal, we grant that the chemist of the first examination probably wouldn't know an animal odor if he were janitor of a menagerie. As we go along, however, there can be no such sweeping ignoring of this phenomenon:

The fall of animal-matter from the sky.

I'd suggest, to start with, that we'd put ourselves in the place of deep-sea fishes:

How would they account for the fall of animal-matter from above?

They wouldn't try—

Or it's easy enough to think of most of us as deep-sea fishes of a kind.

Jour. Franklin Inst., 90-11:

That, upon the 14th of February, 1870, there fell, at Genoa, Italy, according to Director Boccardo, of the Technical Institute of Genoa, and Prof. Castellani, a yellow substance. But the microscope revealed numerous globules of cobalt blue, also corpuscles of a pearly color that resembled starch. See Nature, 2-166.

Comptes Rendus, 56-972:

M. Bouis says of a substance, reddish varying to yellowish, that fell enormously and successively, or upon April 30, May 1 and May 2, in France and Spain, that it carbonized and spread the odor of charred animal matter—that it was not pollen—that in alcohol it left a residue of resinous matter.

Hundreds of thousands of tons of this matter must have fallen.

p. 27

"Odor of charred animal matter."

Or an aerial battle that occurred in inter-planetary space several hundred years ago—effect of time in making diverse remains uniform in appearance

It's all very absurd because, even though we are told of a prodigious quantity of animal matter that fell from the sky—three days—France and Spain—we're not ready yet: that's all. M. Bouis says that this substance was not pollen; the vastness of the fall makes acceptable that it was not pollen; still, the resinous residue does suggest pollen of pine trees. We shall hear a great deal of a substance with a resinous residue that has fallen from the sky: finally we shall divorce it from all suggestion of pollen.

Blackwood's Magazine, 3-338:

A yellow powder that fell at Gerace, Calabria, March 14, 1813. Some of this substance was collected by Sig. Simenini, Professor of Chemistry, at Naples. It had an earthy, insipid taste, and is described as "unctuous." When heated, this matter turned brown, then black, then red. According to the Annals of Philosophy, 11-466, one of the components was a greenish-yellow substance, which, when dried, was found to be resinous.

But concomitants of this fall:

Loud noises were heard in the sky.

Stones fell from the sky.

According to Chladni, these concomitants occurred, and to me they seem—rather brutal?—or not associable with something so soft and gentle as a fall of pollen?

Black rains and black snows—rains as black as a deluge of ink—jet-black snowflakes.

Such a rain as that which fell in Ireland, May 14, 1849, described in the Annals of Scientific Discovery, 1850, and the Annual Register, 1849. It fell upon a district of 400 square miles, and was the color of ink, and of a fetid odor and very disagreeable taste.

The rain at Castlecommon, Ireland, April 30, 1887—"thick, black rain." (Amer. Met. Jour., 4-193.)

A black rain fell in Ireland, Oct. 8 and 9, 1907. (Symons’ Met. 

p. 28

Mag. 43-2.) "It left a most peculiar and disagreeable smell in the air."

The orthodox explanation of this rain occurs in Nature, March 2, 1908—cloud of soot that had come from South Wales, crossing the Irish Channel and all of Ireland.

So the black rain of Ireland, of March, 1898: ascribed in Symons’ Met. Mag. 33-40, to clouds of soot from the manufacturing towns of North England and South Scotland.

Our Intermediatist principle of pseudo-logic, or our principle of Continuity is, of course, that nothing is unique, or individual: that all phenomena merge away into all other phenomena: that, for instance—suppose there should be vast celestial super-oceanic, or inter-planetary vessels that come near this earth and discharge volumes of smoke at times. We're only supposing such a thing as that now, because, conventionally, we are beginning modestly and tentatively. But if it were so, there would necessarily be some phenomenon upon this earth, with which that phenomenon would merge. Extra-mundane smoke and smoke from cities merge, or both would manifest in black precipitations in rain.

In Continuity, it is impossible to distinguish phenomena at their merging-points, so we look for them at their extremes. Impossible to distinguish between animal and vegetable in some infusoria—but hippopotamus and violet. For all practical purposes they're distinguishable enough. No one but a Barnum or a Bailey would send one a bunch of hippopotami as a token of regard.

So away from the great manufacturing centers:

Black rain in Switzerland, Jan. 20, 1911. Switzerland is so remote, and so ill at ease is the conventional explanation here, that Nature, 85-451, says of this rain that in certain conditions of weather, snow may take on an appearance of blackness that is quite deceptive.

May be so. Or at night, if dark enough, snow may look black. This is simply denying that a black rain fell in Switzerland, Jan. 20, 191I.

Extreme remoteness from great manufacturing centers:

La Nature, 1888, 2-406:

p. 29

That Aug. 14, 1888, there fell at the Cape of Good Hope, a rain so black as to be described as a "shower of ink."

Continuity dogs us. Continuity rules us and pulls us back. We seemed to have a little hope that by the method of extremes we could get away from things that merge indistinguishably into other things. We find that every departure from one merger is entrance upon another. At the Cape of Good Hope, vast volumes of smoke from great manufacturing centers, as an explanation, cannot very acceptably merge with the explanation of extra-mundane origin—but smoke from a terrestrial volcano can, and that is the suggestion that is made in La Nature.

There is, in human intellection, no real standard to judge by, but our acceptance, for the present, is that the more nearly positive will prevail. By the more nearly positive we mean the more nearly Organized. Everything merges away into everything else, but proportionately to its complexity, if unified, a thing seems strong, real, and distinct: so, in aesthetics, it is recognized that diversity in unity is higher beauty, or approximation to Beauty, than is simpler unity; so the logicians feel that agreement of diverse data constitute greater convincingness, or strength, than that of mere parallel instances: so to Herbert Spencer the more highly differentiated and integrated is the more fully evolved. Our opponents hold out for mundane origin of all black rains. Our method will be the presenting of diverse phenomena in agreement with the notion of some other origin. We take up not only black rains but black rains and their accompanying phenomena.

A correspondent to Knowledge, 5-190, writes of a black rain that fell in the Clyde Valley, March 1, 1884: of another black rain that fell two days later. According to the correspondent, a black rain had fallen in the Clyde Valley, March 20, 1828: then again March 22, 1828. According to Nature, 9-43, a black rain fell at Marls-ford, England, Sept. 4, 1873; more than twenty-four hours later another black rain fell in the same small town.

The black rains of Slains:

According to Rev. James Rust (Scottish Showers):

A black rain at Slains, Jan. 14, 1862—another at Carluke, 140

p. 30

miles from Slains, May r, 1862—at Slains, May 20, 1862—Slains, Oct. 28, 1863.

But after two of these showers, vast quantities of a substance described sometimes as "pumice stone," but sometimes as "slag," were washed upon the sea coast near Slains. A chemist's opinion is given that this substance was slag: that it was not a volcanic product: slag from smelting works. We now have, for black rains, a concomitant that is irreconcilable with origin from factory chimneys. Whatever it may have been the quantity of this substance was so enormous that, in Mr. Rust's opinion, to have produced so much of it would have required the united output of all the smelting works in the world. If slag it were, we accept that an artificial product has, in enormous quantities, fallen from the sky. If you don't think that such occurrences are damned by Science, read Scottish Showers and see how impossible it was for the author to have this matter taken up by the scientific world.

The first and second rains corresponded, in time, with ordinary ebullitions of Vesuvius.

The third and fourth, according to Mr. Rust, corresponded with no known volcanic activities upon this earth.

La Science Pour Tous, 11-26:

That, between October, 1863, and January, 1866, four more black rains fell at Slains, Scotland.

The writer of this supplementary account tells us, with a better, or more unscrupulous, orthodoxy than Mr. Rust's, that of the eight black rains, five coincided with eruptions of Vesuvius and three with eruptions of Etna.

The fate of all explanation is to close one door only to have another fly wide open. I should say that my own notions upon this subject will be considered irrational, but at least my gregariousness is satisfied in associating here with the preposterous—or this writer, and those who think in his rut, have to say that they can think of four discharges from one far-distant volcano, passing over a great part of Europe, precipitating nowhere else, discharging precisely over one small northern parish

But also of three other discharges, from another far-distant volcano,

p. 31

showing the same precise preference, if not marksmanship, for one small parish in Scotland.

Nor would orthodoxy be any better off in thinking of exploding meteorites and their débris: preciseness and recurrence would be just as difficult to explain.

My own notion is of an island near an oceanic trade-route: it might receive débris from passing vessels seven times in four years. Other concomitants of black rains:

In Timb's Year Book, 1851-270, there is an account of "a sort of rumbling, as of wagons, heard for upward of an hour without ceasing," July 16, 1850, Bulwick Rectory, Northampton, England. On the 19th, a black rain fell.

In Nature, 30-6, a correspondent writes of an intense darkness at Preston, England, April 26, 1884: page 32, another correspondent writes of black rain at Crowle, near Worcester, April 26: that a week later, or May 3, it had fallen again: another account of black rain, upon the 28th of April, near Church Shetton, so intense that the following day brooks were still dyed with it. According to four accounts by correspondents to Nature there were earthquakes in England at this time.

Or the black rain of Canada, Nov. 9, 1819. This time it is orthodoxy to attribute the black precipitate to smoke of forest fires south of the Ohio River—

Zurcher, Meteors, p. 238:

That this black rain was accompanied by "shocks like those of an earthquake."

Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 2-381:

That the earthquake had occurred at the climax of intense darkness and the fall of black rain.

Red rains.

Orthodoxy:

Sand blown by the sirocco, from the Sahara to Europe.

Especially in the earthquake regions of Europe, there have been many falls of red substance, usually, but not always, precipitated in rain. Upon many occasions, these substances have been "absolutely identified" as sand from the Sahara. When I first took this

p. 32

matter up, I came across assurance after assurance, so positive to this effect, that, had I not been an Intermediatist, I'd have looked no further. Samples collected from a rain at Genoa—samples of sand forwarded from the Sahara—"absolute agreement" some writers said: same color, same particles of quartz, even the same shells of diatoms mixed in. Then the chemical analyses: not a disagreement worth mentioning.

Our intermediatist means of expression will be that, with proper exclusions, after the scientific or theological method, anything can be identified with anything else, if all things are only different expressions of an underlying oneness.

To many minds there's rest and there's satisfaction in that expression "absolutely identified." Absoluteness, or the illusion of it—the universal quest. If chemists have identified substances that have fallen in Europe as sand from African deserts, swept up in African whirlwinds, that's assuasive to all the irritations that occur to those cloistered minds that must repose in the concept of a snug, isolated, little world, free from contact with cosmic wickednesses, safe from stellar guile, undisturbed by inter-planetary prowlings and invasions. The only trouble is that a chemist's analysis, which seems so final and authoritative to some minds, is no more nearly absolute than is identification by a child or description by an imbecile—

I take some of that back: I accept that the approximation is higher—

But that it's based upon delusion, because there is no definiteness, no homogeneity, no stability, only different stages somewhere between them and indefiniteness, heterogeneity, and instability. There are no chemical elements. It seems acceptable that Ramsay and others have settled that. The chemical elements are only another disappointment in the quest for the positive, as the definite, the homogeneous, and the stable. If there were real elements, there could be a real science of chemistry.

Upon Nov. 12 and 13, 5902, occurred the greatest fall of matter in the history of Australia. Upon the 14th of November, it "rained mud," in Tasmania. It was of course attributed to Australian whirlwinds, but, according to the Monthly Weather Review, 32-

p. 33

[paragraph continues] 165, there was a haze all the way to the Philippines, also as far as Hong Kong. It may be that this phenomenon had no especial relation with the even more tremendous fall of matter that occurred in Europe, February, 1903.

For several days, the south of England was a dumping ground—from somewhere.

If you'd like to have a chemist's opinion, even though it's only a chemist's opinion, see the report of the meeting .of the Royal Chemical Society, April 2, 5903. Mr. E. G. Clayton read a paper upon some of the substance that had fallen from the sky, collected by him. The Sahara explanation applies mostly to falls that occur in southern Europe. Farther away, the conventionalists are a little uneasy: for instance, the editor of the Monthly Weather Review, 29-121, says of a red rain that fell near the coast of Newfoundland, early in 1890: "It would be very remarkable if this was Sahara dust." Mr. Clayton said that the matter examined by him was "merely wind-borne dust from the roads and lanes of Wessex." This opinion is typical of all scientific opinion—or theological opinion—or feminine opinion—all very well except for what it disregards. The most charitable thing I can think of—because I think it gives us a broader tone to relieve our malices with occasional charities—is that Mr. Clayton had not heard of the astonishing extent of this fall—had covered the Canary Islands, on the 19th, for instance. I think, myself, that in 5903, we passed through the remains of a powdered world—left over from an ancient inter-planetary dispute, brooding in space like a red resentment ever since. Or, like every other opinion, the notion of dust from Wessex turns into a provincial thing when we look it over.

To think is to conceive incompletely, because all thought relates only to the local. We metaphysicians, of course, like to have the notion that we think of the unthinkable.

As to opinions, or pronouncements, I should say, because they always have such an authoritative air, of other chemists, there is an analysis in Nature, 68-54, giving water and organic matter at 9.08 per cent. It's that carrying out of fractions that's so convincing. The substance is identified as sand from the Sahara.

The vastness of this fall. In Nature, 68-65, we are told that

p. 34

it had occurred in Ireland, too. The Sahara, of course—because, prior to February 19, there had been dust storms in the Sahara—disregarding that in that great region there's always, in some part of it, a dust storm. However, just at present, it does look reasonable that dust had come from Africa, via the Canaries.

The great difficulty that authoritativeness has to contend with is some other authoritativeness. When an infallibility clashes with a pontification—

They explain.

Nature, March 5, 1903:

Another analysis—36 per cent organic matter.

Such disagreements don't look very well, so, in Nature, 68-109, one of the differing chemists explains. He says that his analysis was of muddy rain, and the other was of sediment of rain—

We're quite ready to accept excuses from the most high, though I do wonder whether we're quite so damned as we were, if we find ourselves in a gracious and tolerant mood toward the powers that condemn—but the tax that now comes upon our good manners and unwillingness to be too severe—

Nature, 68-223:

Another chemist. He says it was 23.49 per cent water and organic matter.

He "identifies" this matter as sand from an African desert—but after deducting organic matter—

But you and I could be "identified" as sand from an African desert, after deducting all there is to us except sand—

Why we cannot accept that this fall was of sand from the Sahara, omitting the obvious objection that in most parts the Sahara is not red at all, but is usually described as "dazzling white"—

The enormousness of it: that a whirlwind might have carried it, but that, in that case it would be no supposititious, or doubtfully identified whirlwind, but the greatest atmospheric cataclysm in the history of this earth:

Jour. Roy. Met. Soc., 30-56:

That, up to the 27th of February, this fall had continued in Belgium, Holland, Germany and Austria; that in some instances it was not sand, or that almost all the matter vas organic: that a

p. 35

vessel had reported the fall as occurring in the Atlantic Ocean, midway between Southampton and the Barbados. The calculation is given that, in England alone, 10,000,000 tons of matter had fallen. It had fallen in Switzerland (Symons’ Met. Mag., March, 1903). It had fallen in Russia (Bull. Com. Geolog., 22-48). Not only had a vast quantity of matter fallen several months before, in Australia, but it was at this time falling in Australia (Victorian Naturalist, June, 1903)—enormously—red mud—fifty tons per square mile.

The Wessex explanation—

Or that every explanation is a Wessex explanation: by that I mean an attempt to interpret the enormous in terms of the minute—but that nothing can be finally explained, because by Truth we mean the Universal; and that even if we could think as wide as Universality, that would not be requital to the cosmic quest—which is not for Truth, but for the local that is true—not to universalize the local, but to localize the universal—or to give to a cosmic cloud absolute interpretation in terms of the little dusty roads and lanes of Wessex. I cannot conceive that this can be done: I think of high approximation.

Our Intermediatist concept is that, because of the continuity of all "things," which are not separate, positive, or real things, all pseudo-things partake of the underlying, or are only different expressions, degrees, or aspects of the underlying: so then that a sample from somewhere in anything must correspond with a sample from somewhere in anything else.

That, by due care in selection, and disregard for everything else, or the scientific and theological method, the substance that fell, February, 1903, could be identified with anything, or with some part or aspect of anything that could be conceived of—

With sand from the Sahara, sand from a barrel of sugar, or dust of your great-great-grandfather.

Different samples are described and listed in the Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 30-57—or we'll see whether my notion that a chemist could have identified some one of these samples as from anywhere conceivable, is extreme or not:

"Similar to brick dust," in one place; "buff or light brown," in

p. 36

another place; "chocolate-colored and silky to the touch and slightly iridescent"; "gray"; "red-rust color"; "reddish raindrops and gray sand"; "dirty gray"; "quite red"; "yellow-brown, with a tinge of pink"; "deep yellow-clay color."

In Nature, it is described as of a peculiar yellowish cast in one place, reddish somewhere else, and salmon-colored in another place.

Or there could be real science if there were really anything to be scientific about.

Or the science of chemistry is like a science of sociology, prejudiced in advance, because only to see is to see with a prejudice, setting out to "prove" that all inhabitants of New York came from Africa.

Very easy matter. Samples from one part of town. Disregard for all the rest.

There is no science but Wessex-science.

According to our acceptance, there should be no other, but that approximation should be higher: that metaphysics is super-evil: that the scientific spirit is of the cosmic quest.

Our notion is that, in a real existence, such a quasi-system of fables as the science of chemistry could not deceive for a moment: but that in an "existence" endeavoring to become real, it represents that endeavor, and will continue to impose its pseudo-positiveness until it be driven out by a higher approximation to realness;

That the science of chemistry is as impositive as fortune-telling

Or no—

That, though it represents a higher approximation to realness than does alchemy, for instance, and so drove out alchemy, it is still only somewhere between myth and positiveness.

The attempt at realness, or to state a real and unmodified fact here, is the statement:

All red rains are colored by sands from the Sahara Desert.

My own impositivist acceptances are:

That some red rains are colored by sands from the Sahara Desert;

Some by sands from other terrestrial sources;

Some by sands from other worlds, or from their deserts—also from

p. 37

aerial regions too indefinite or amorphous to be thought of as "worlds" or planets—

That no supposititious whirlwind can account for the hundreds of millions of tons of matter that fell upon Australia, Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean and Europe in 1902 and 1903—that a whirlwind that could do that would not be supposititious.

But now we shall cast off some of our own wessicality by accepting that there have been falls of red substance other than sand.

We regard every science as an expression of the attempt to be real. But to be real is to localize the universal—or to make some one thing as wide as all things—successful accomplishment of which I cannot conceive of. The prime resistance to this endeavor is the refusal of the rest of the universe to be damned, excluded, disregarded, to receive Christian Science treatment, by something else so attempting. Although all phenomena are striving for the Absolute—or have surrendered to and have incorporated themselves in higher attempts, simply to be phenomenal, or to have seeming in Intermediateness is to express relations.

A river.

It is water expressing the gravitational relation of different levels. The water of the river.

Expression of chemic relations of hydrogen and oxygen—which are not final.

A city.

Manifestation of commercial and social relations.

How could a mountain be without base in a greater body?

Storekeeper live without customers?

The prime resistance to the positivist attempt by Science is its relations with other phenomena, or that it only expresses those relations in the first place. Or that a Science can have seeming, or survive in Intermediateness, as something pure, isolated, positively different, no more than could a river or a city or a mountain or a store.

This Intermediateness-wide attempt by parts to be wholes—which cannot be realized in our quasi-state, if we accept that in it the

p. 38

co-existence of two or more wholes or universals is impossible—high approximation to which, however, may be thinkable—

Scientists and their dream of "pure science."

Artists and their dream of "art for art's sake."

It is our notion that if they could almost realize, that would be almost realness: that they would instantly be translated into real existence. Such thinkers are good positivists, but they are evil in an economic and sociologic sense, if, in that sense, nothing has justification for being, unless it serve, or function for, or express the relations of, some higher aggregate. So Science functions for and serves society at large, and would, from society at large, receive no support, unless it did so divert itself or dissipate and prostitute itself. It seems that by prostitution I mean usefulness.

There have been red rains that, in the middle ages, were called "rains of blood." Such rains terrified many persons, and were so unsettling to large populations, that Science, in its sociologic relations, has sought, by Mrs. Eddy's method, to remove an evil—

That "rains of blood" do not exist;

That rains so called are only of water colored by sand from the Sahara Desert.

My own acceptance is that such assurances, whether fictitious or not, whether the Sahara is a "dazzling white" desert or not, have wrought such good effects, in a sociologic sense, even though prostitutional in the positivist sense, that, in the sociologic sense, they were well justified;

But that we've gone on: that this is the twentieth century; that most of us have grown up so that such soporifics of the past are no longer necessary:

That if gushes of blood should fall from the sky upon New York City, business would go on as usual.

We began with rains that we accepted ourselves were, most likely, only of sand. In my own still immature hereticalness—and by heresy, or progress, I mean, very largely, a return, though with many modifications, to the superstitions of the past, I think I feel considerable aloofness to the idea of rains of blood. Just at present, it is my conservative, or timid purpose, to express only that there

p. 39

have been red rains that very strongly suggest blood or finely divided animal matter—

Débris from inter-planetary disasters.

Aerial battles.

Food-supplies from cargoes of super-vessels, wrecked in interplanetary traffic.

There was a red rain in the Mediterranean region, March 6, 1888. Twelve days later, it fell again. Whatever this substance may have been, when burned, the odor of animal matter from it was strong and persistent. (L’Astronomie, 1888-205.)

But—infinite heterogeneity—or débris from many different kinds of aerial cargoes—there have been red rains that have been colored by neither sand nor animal matter.

Annals of Philosophy, 16-226:

That, Nov. 2, 1819—week before the black rain and earthquake of Canada—there fell, at Blankenberge, Holland, a red rain. As to sand, two chemists of Bruges concentrated 144 ounces of the rain to 4 ounces—"no precipitate fell." But the color was so marked that had there been sand, it would have been deposited, if the substance had been diluted instead of concentrated. Experiments were made, and various reagents did cast precipitates, but other than sand. The chemists concluded that the rain-water contained muriate of cobalt—which is not very enlightening: that could be said of many substances carried in vessels upon the Atlantic Ocean. Whatever it may have been, in the Annales de Chimie, 2-12-432, its color is said to have been red-violet. For various chemic reactions, see Quar. Jour. Roy. Inst., 9-202, and Edin. Phil. Jour., 2-381.

Something that fell with dust said to have been meteoric, March 9, 10, 11, 1872: described in the Chemical News, 25-300, as a "peculiar substance," consisted of red iron ocher, carbonate of lime, and organic matter.

Orange-red hail, March 14, 1873, in Tuscany. (Notes and Queries 9-5-16.)

Rain of lavender-colored substance, at Oudon, France, Dec. 19, 1903. (Bull. Soc. Met. de France, 1904-124.)

La Nature, 1885-2-351:

p. 40

That, according to Prof. Schwedoff, there fell, in Russia, June 14, 1880, red hailstones, also blue hailstones, also gray hailstones. Nature, 34-123:

A correspondent writes that he had been told by a resident of a small town in Venezuela, that there, April 17, 1886, had fallen hailstones, some red, some blue, some whitish: informant said to have been one unlikely ever to have heard of the Russian phenomenon; described as an "honest, plain countryman."

Nature, July 5, 1877, quotes a Roman correspondent to the London Times who sent a translation from an Italian newspaper: that a red rain had fallen in Italy, June 23, 1877, containing "microscopically small particles of sand."

Or, according to our acceptance, any other story would have been an evil thing, in the sociologic sense, in Italy, in 1877. But the English correspondent, from a land where terrifying red rains are uncommon, does not feel this necessity. He writes: "I am by no means satisfied that the rain was of sand and water." His observations are that drops of this rain left stains "such as sandy water could not leave." He notes that when the water evaporated, no sand was left behind.

L’Année Scientifique, 1888-75:

That, Dec. 13, 1887, there fell, in Cochin China, a substance like blood, somewhat coagulated.

Annales de Chimie, 85-266:

That a thick, viscous, red matter fell at Ulm, in 1812.

We now have a datum with a factor that has been foreshadowed; which will recur and recur and recur throughout this book. It is a factor that makes for speculation so revolutionary that it will have to be reinforced many times before we can take it into full acceptance.

Year Book of Facts, 1861-273:

Quotation from a letter from Prof. Campini to Prof. Matteucci:

That, upon Dec. 28, 1860, at about 7 A.M., in the northwestern part of Siena, a reddish rain fell copiously for two hours.

A second red shower fell at 11 o'clock.

Three days later, the red rain fell again.

The next day another red rain fell.

p. 41

Still more extraordinarily:

Each fall occurred in "exactly the same quarter of town."

4

It is in the records of the French Academy that, upon March 17, 1669, in the town of Châtillon-sur-Seine, fell a reddish substance that was "thick, viscous, and putrid." American Journal of Science, 1-41-404:

Story of a highly unpleasant substance that had fallen from the sky, in Wilson County, Tennessee. We read that Dr. Troost visited the place and investigated. Later we're going to investigate some investigations—but never mind that now. Dr. Troost reported that the substance was clear blood and portions of flesh scattered upon tobacco fields. He argued that a whirlwind might have taken an animal up from one place, mauled it around, and have precipitated its remains somewhere else.

But, in volume 44, page 216, of the Journal, there is an apology. The whole matter is, upon newspaper authority, said to have been a hoax by Negroes, who had pretended to have seen the shower, for the sake of practicing upon the credulity of their masters: that they had scattered the decaying flesh of a dead hog over the tobacco fields.

If we don't accept this datum, at least we see the sociologically necessary determination to have all falls accredited to earthly origins—even when they're falls that don't fall.

Annual Register, 1821-687:

That, upon the 13th of August, 1819, something had fallen from the sky at Amherst, Mass. It had been examined and described by Prof. Graves, formerly lecturer at Dartmouth College. It was an object that had upon it a nap, similar to that of milled cloth. Upon removing this nap, a buff-colored, pulpy substance was found. It had an offensive odor, and, upon exposure to the air, turned to a vivid red. This thing was said to have fallen with a brilliant light.

Also see the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 5-295. In the Annales 

p. 42

de Chimie, 1821-67, M. Arago accepts the datum, and gives four instances of similar objects or substances said to have fallen from the sky, two of which we shall have with our data of gelatinous, or viscous matter, and two of which I omit, because it seems to me that the dates given are too far back.

In the American Journal of Science, 1-2-335, is Professor Graves’ account, communicated by Professor Dewey:

That, upon the evening of August 13, 1819, a light was seen in Amherst—a falling object—sound as if of an explosion.

In the home of Prof. Dewey, this light was reflected upon a wall of a room in which were several members of Prof. Dewey's family.

The next morning, in Prof. Dewey's front yard, in what is said to have been the only position from which the light that had been seen in the room, the night before, could have been reflected, was found a substance "unlike anything before observed by anyone who saw it." It was a bowl-shaped object, about 8 inches in diameter, and one inch thick. Bright buff-colored, and having upon it a "fine nap." Upon removing this covering, a buff-colored, pulpy substance of the consistency of soft-soap, was found—"of an offensive, suffocating smell."

A few minutes of exposure to the air changed the buff color to "a livid color resembling venous blood." It absorbed moisture quickly from the air and liquefied. For some of the chemic reactions, see the Journal.

There's another lost quasi-soul of a datum that seems to me to belong here:

London Times, April 19, 1836:

Fall of fish that had occurred in the neighborhood of Allahabad, India. It is said that the fish were of the chalwa species, about a span in length and a seer in weight—you know.

They were dead and dry.

Or they had been such a long time out of water that we can't accept that they had been scooped out of a pond, by a whirlwind—even though they were so definitely identified as of a known local species

Or they were not fish at all.

I incline, myself, to the acceptance that they were not fish, but

p. 43

slender, fish-shaped objects of the same substance as that which fell at Amherst—it is said that, whatever they were, they could not be eaten: that "in the pan, they turned to blood."

For details of this story see the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, 1834-307. May 16 or 17, 1834, is the date given in the Journal.

In the American Journal of Science, 1-25-362, occurs the inevitable damnation of the Amherst object:

Prof. Edward Hitchcock went to live in Amherst. He says that years later, another object, like the one said to have fallen in 1819, had been found at "nearly the same place." Prof. Hitchcock was invited by Prof. Graves to examine it. Exactly like the first one. Corresponded in size and color and consistency. The chemic reactions were the same.

Prof. Hitchcock recognized it in a moment.

It was a gelatinous fungus.

He did not satisfy himself as to just the exact species it belonged to, but he predicted that similar fungi might spring up within twenty-four hours—

But, before evening, two others sprang up.

Or we've arrived at one of the oldest of the exclusionists’ conventions—or nostoc. We shall have many data of gelatinous substance said to have fallen from the sky: almost always the exclusionists argue that it was only nostoc, an Alga, or, in some respects, a fungous growth. The rival convention is "spawn of frogs or of fishes." These two conventions have made a strong combination. In instances where testimony was not convincing that gelatinous matter had been seen to fall, it was said that the gelatinous substance was nostoc, and had been upon the ground in the first place: when the testimony was too good that it had fallen, it was said to be spawn that had been carried from one place to another in a whirlwind.

Now, I can't say that nostoc is always greenish, any more than I can say that blackbirds are always black, having seen a white one: we shall quote a scientist who knew of flesh-colored nostoc, when so to know was convenient. When we come to reported falls of gelatinous substances, I'd like it to be noticed how often they are described as whitish or grayish. In looking up the subject, myself,

p. 44

[paragraph continues] I have read only of greenish nostoc. Said to be greenish, in Webster's Dictionary—said to be "blue-green" in the New International Encyclopedia—"from bright green to olive-green" (Science Gossip, 10-114); "green" (Science Gossip, 7-260); "greenish" (Notes and Queries, 1-11-219). It would seem acceptable that, if many reports of white birds should occur, the birds are not blackbirds, even though there have been white blackbirds. Or that, if often reported, grayish or whitish gelatinous substance is not nostoc, and is not spawn if occurring in times unseasonable for spawn.

"The Kentucky Phenomenon."

So it was called, in its day, and now we have an occurrence that attracted a great deal of attention in its own time. Usually these things of the accursed have been hushed up or disregarded—suppressed like the seven black rains of Slains—but, upon March 3, 1876, something occurred, in Bath County, Kentucky, that brought many newspaper correspondents to the scene.

The substance that looked like beef that fell from the sky. Upon March 3, 1876, at Olympian Springs, Bath County, Kentucky, flakes of a substance that looked like beef fell from the sky—"from a clear sky." We'd like to emphasize that it was said that nothing but this falling substance was visible in the sky. It fell in flakes of various sizes; some two inches square, one, three or four inches square. The flake-formation is interesting: later we shall think of it as signifying pressure—somewhere. It was a thick shower, on the ground, on trees, on fences, but it was narrowly localized: or upon a strip of land about 100 yards long and about 50 yards wide. For the first account, see the Scientific American, 34-197, and the New York Times, March 10, 1876.

Then the exclusionists.

Something that looked like beef: one flake of it the size of a square envelope.

If we think of how hard the exclusionists have fought to reject the coming of ordinary-looking dust from this earth's externality, we can sympathize with them in this sensational instance, perhaps. Newspaper correspondents wrote broadcast and witnesses were quoted, and this time there is no mention of a hoax, and, except by one scientist, there is no denial that the fall did take place.

p. 45

It seems to me that the exclusionists are still more emphatically conservators. It is not so much that they are inimical to all data of externally derived substances that fall upon this earth, as that they are inimical to all data discordant with a system that does not include such phenomena—

Or the spirit or hope or ambition of the cosmos, which we call attempted positivism: not to find out the new; not to add to what is called knowledge, but to systematize.

Scientific American Supplement, 2-426:

That the substance reported from Kentucky had been examined by Leopold Brandeis.

"At last we have a proper explanation of this much talked of phenomenon."

"It has been comparatively easy to identify the substance and to fix its status. The Kentucky 'wonder' is no more or less than nostoc."

Or that it had not fallen; that it had been upon the ground in the first place, and had swollen in rain, and, attracting attention by greatly increased volume, had been supposed by unscientific observers to have fallen in rain—

What rain, I don't know.

Also it is spoken of as "dried" several times. That's one of the most important of the details.

But the relief of outraged propriety, expressed in the Supplement, is amusing to some of us, who, I fear, may be a little improper at times. Very spirit of the Salvation Army, when some third-rate scientist comes out with an explanation of the vermiform appendix or the os coccygis that would have been acceptable to Moses. To give completeness to "the proper explanation," it is said that Mr. Brandeis had identified the substance as "flesh-colored" nostoc.

Prof. Lawrence Smith, of Kentucky, one of the most resolute of the exclusionists:

New York Times, March 12, 1876:

That the substance had been examined and analyzed by Prof. Smith, according to whom it gave every indication of being the "dried" spawn of some reptile, "doubtless of the frog"—or up from

p. 46

one place and down in another. As to "dried," that may refer to condition when Prof. Smith received it.

In the Scientific American Supplement, 2-473, Dr. A. Mead Edwards, President of the Newark Scientific Association, writes that, when he saw Mr. Brandeis' communication, his feeling was of conviction that propriety had been re-established, or that the problem had been solved, as he expresses it: knowing Mr. Brandeis well, he had called upon that upholder of respectability, to see the substance that had been identified as nostoc. But he had also called upon Dr. Hamilton, who had a specimen, and Dr. Hamilton had declared it to be lung-tissue. Dr. Edwards writes of the substance that had so completely, or beautifully—if beauty is completeness—been identified as nostoc—"It turned out to be lung tissue also." He wrote to other persons who had specimens, and identified other specimens as masses of cartilage or muscular fibers. "As to whence it came, I have no theory." Nevertheless he endorses the local explanation—and a bizarre thing it is:

A flock of gorged, heavy-weighted buzzards, but far up and invisible in the clear sky—

They had disgorged.

Prof. Fassig lists the substance, in his "Bibliography," as fish spawn. McAtee (Monthly Weather Review, May, 1918) lists it as a jelly-like material, supposed to have been the "dried" spawn either of fishes or of some batrachian.

Or this is why, against the seemingly insuperable odds against all things new, there can be what is called progress—

That nothing is positive, in the aspects of homogeneity and unity:

If the whole world should seem to combine against you, it is only unreal combination, or intermediateness to unity and disunity. Every resistance is itself divided into parts resisting one another. The simplest strategy seems to be—never bother to fight a thing: set its own parts fighting one another.

We are merging away from carnal to gelatinous substance, and here there is an abundance of instances or reports of instances. These data are so improper they're obscene to the science of today, but we shall see that science, before it became so rigorous, was not so prudish. Chladni was not, and Greg was not.

p. 47

I shall have to accept, myself, that gelatinous substance has often fallen from the sky—

Or that, far up, or far away, the whole sky is gelatinous?

That meteors tear through and detach fragments?

That fragments are brought down by storms?

That the twinkling of stars is penetration of light through something that quivers?

I think, myself, that it would be absurd to say that the whole sky is gelatinous: it seems more acceptable that only certain areas are.

Humboldt (Cosmos, 1-119) says that all our data in this respect must be "classed amongst the mythical fables of mythology." He is very sure, but just a little redundant.

We shall be opposed by the standard resistances:

There in the first place;

Up from one place, in a whirlwind, and down in another.

We shall not bother to be very convincing one way or another, because of the over-shadowing of the datum with which we shall end up. It will mean that something had been in a stationary position for several days over a small part of a small town in England: this is the revolutionary thing that we have alluded to before; whether the substance were nostoc, or spawn, or some kind of a larval nexus, doesn't matter so much. If it stood in the sky for several days, we rank with Moses as a chronicler of improprieties—or was that story, or datum, we mean, told by Moses? Then we shall have so many records of gelatinous substance said to have fallen with meteorites, that, between the two phenomena, some of us will have to accept connection—or that there are at least vast gelatinous areas aloft, and that meteorites tear through, carrying down some of the substance.

Comptes Rendus, 3-554:

That, in 1836, M. Vallot, member of the French Academy, placed before the Academy some fragments of a gelatinous substance, said to have fallen from the sky, and asked that they be analyzed. There is no further allusion to this subject.

Comptes Rendus, 23-542:

That, in Wilna, Lithuania, April 4, 1846, in a rainstorm, fell nut-sized masses of a substance that is described as both resinous and

p. 48

gelatinous. It was odorless until burned: then it spread a very pronounced sweetish odor. It is described as like gelatine, but much firmer: but, having been in water 24 hours, it swelled out, and looked altogether gelatinous—

It was grayish.

We are told that, in 1841 and 1846, a similar substance had fallen in Asia Minor.

In Notes and Queries, 8-6-190, it is said that, early in August, 1894, thousands of jellyfish, about the size of a shilling, had fallen at Bath, England. I think it is not acceptable that they were jellyfish: but it does look as if this time frog spawn did fall from the sky, and may have been translated by a whirlwind—because, at the same time, small frogs fell at Wigan, England.

Nature, 87-10:

That, June 24, 1911, at Eton, Bucks, England, the ground was found covered with masses of jelly, the size of peas, after a heavy rainfall. We are not told of nostoc, this time: it is said that the object contained numerous eggs of "some species of Chironomus, from which larvae soon emerged."

I incline, then, to think that the objects that fell at Bath were neither jellyfish nor masses of frog spawn, but something of a larval kind—

This is what had occurred at Bath, England, 23 years before.

London Times, April 24, 1871:

That, upon the 22nd of April, 1871, a storm of glutinous drops neither jellyfish nor masses of frog spawn, but something of a [line missing here in original text. Ed.] railroad station, at Bath. "Many soon developed into a wormlike chrysalis, about an inch in length." The account of this occurrence in the Zoologist, 2-6-2686, is more like the Eton-datum: of minute forms, said to have been infusoria; not forms about an inch in length.

Trans. Ent. Soc. of London, 1871-proc. xxii:

That the phenomenon has been investigated by the Rev. L. Jenyns, of Bath. His description is of minute worms in filmy envelopes. He tries to account for their segregation. The mystery of it is: What could have brought so many of them together? Many other

p. 49

falls we shall have record of, and in most of them segregation is the great mystery. A whirlwind seems anything but a segregative force. Segregation of things that have fallen from the sky has been avoided as most deep-dyed of the damned. Mr. Jenyns conceives of a large pool, in which were many of these spherical masses: of the pool drying up and concentrating all in a small area; of a whirlwind then scooping all up together—

But several days later, more of these objects fell in the same place.

That such marksmanship is not attributable to whirlwinds seems to me to be what we think we mean by common sense:

It may not look like common sense to say that these things had been stationary over the town of Bath, several days—

The seven black rains of Slains;

The four red rains of Siena.

An interesting sidelight on the mechanics of orthodoxy is that Mr. Jenyns dutifully records the second fall, but ignores it in his explanation.

R. P. Greg, one of the most notable of cataloguers of meteoritic phenomena, records (Phil. Mag.: 4-8-463) falls of viscid substance in the years 1652, 1686, 1718, 1796, 1811, 1819, 1844. He gives earlier dates, but I practice exclusions, myself. In the Report of the British Association, 1860-63, Greg records a meteor that seemed to pass near the ground, between Barsdorf and Freiburg, Germany: the next day a jelly-like mass was found in the snow—

Unseasonableness for either spawn or nostoc.

Greg's comment in this instance is: "Curious if true." But he records without modification the fall of a meteorite at Gotha, Germany, Sept. 6, 1835, "leaving a jelly-like mass on the ground." We are told that this substance fell only three feet away from an observer. In the Report of the British Association, 1855-94, according to a letter from Greg to Prof. Baden-Powell, at night, Oct. 8, 1844, near Coblenz, a German, who was known to Greg, and another person saw a luminous body fall close to them. They returned next morning and found a gelatinous mass of grayish color.

According to Chladni's account (Annals of Philosophy, n.s., 12-94) a viscous mass fell with a luminous meteorite between Siena and

p. 50

[paragraph continues] Rome, May, 1652; viscous matter found after the fall of a fire ball, in Lusatia, March, 1796; fall of a gelatinous substance, after the explosion of a meteorite, near Heidelberg, July, 1811. In the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 1-234, the substance that fell at Lusatia is said to have been of the "color and odor of dried, brown varnish." In the Amer. Jour. Sci., 1-26-133, it is said that gelatinous matter fell with a globe of fire, upon the island of Lethy, India, 1718.

In the Amer. Jour. Sci., 1-26-396, in many observations upon the meteors of November, 1833, are reports of falls of gelatinous substance:

That, according to newspaper reports, "lumps of jelly" were found on the ground at Rahway, N. J. The substance was whitish, or resembled the coagulated white of an egg;

That Mr. H. H. Garland, of Nelson County, Virginia, had found a jelly-like substance of about the circumference of a twenty-five-cent piece;.

That, according to a communication from A. C. Twining to Prof. Olmstead, a woman at West Point, N. Y., had seen a mass the size of a teacup. It looked like boiled starch;

That, according to a newspaper, of Newark, N. J., a mass of gelatinous substance, like soft soap, had been found. "It possessed little elasticity, and, on the application of heat, it evaporated as readily as water."

It seems incredible that a scientist would have such hardihood, or infidelity, as to accept that these things had fallen from the sky: nevertheless, Prof. Olmstead, who collected these lost souls, says:

"The fact that the supposed deposits were so uniformly described as gelatinous substance forms a presumption in favor of the supposition that they had the origin ascribed to them."

In contemporaneous scientific publications considerable attention was given to Prof. Olmstead's series of papers upon this subject of the November meteors. You will not find one mention of the part that treats of gelatinous matter.

5

I shall attempt not much of correlation of dates. A mathematic-minded positivist, with his delusion that in an intermediate state twice two are four, whereas, if we accept Continuity, we cannot accept that there are anywhere two things to start with, would search our data for periodicities. It is so obvious to me that the mathematic, or the regular, is the attribute of the Universal, that I have not much inclination to look for it in the local. Still, in this solar system, "as a whole," there is considerable approximation to regularity; or the mathematic is so nearly localized that eclipses, for instance, can, with rather high approximation, be foretold, though I have notes that would deflate a little the astronomers’ vainglory in this respect—or would if that were possible. An astronomer is poorly paid, uncheered by crowds, considerably isolated: he lives upon his own inflations: deflate a bear and it couldn't hibernate. This solar system is like every other phenomenon that can be regarded "as a whole"—or the affairs of a ward are interfered with by the affairs of the city of which it is a part; city by county; county by state; state by nation; nation by other nations; all nations by climatic conditions; climatic conditions by solar circumstances; sun by general planetary circumstances; solar system "as a whole" by other solar systems—so the hopelessness of finding the phenomena of entirety in the ward of a city. But positivists are those who try to find the unrelated in the ward of a city. In our acceptance this is the spirit of cosmic religion. Objectively the state is not realizable in the ward of a city. But, if a positivist could bring himself to absolute belief that he had found it, that would be a subjective realization of that which is unrealizable objectively. Of course we do not draw a positive line between the objective and the subjective—or that all phenomena called things or persons are subjective within one all-inclusive nexus, and that thoughts within those that are commonly called "persons" are sub-subjective. It is rather as if Intermediateness

p. 52

strove for Regularity in this solar system and failed: then generated the mentality of astronomers, and, in that secondary expression, strove for conviction that failure had been success.

I have tabulated all the data of this book, and a great deal besides—card system—and several proximities, thus emphasized, have been revelations to me: nevertheless, it is only the method of theologians and scientists—worst of all, of statisticians.

For instance, by the statistic method, I could "prove" that a black rain has fallen "regularly" every seven months, somewhere upon this earth. To do this, I'd have to include red rains and yellow rains, but, conventionally, I'd pick out the black particles in red substances and in yellow substances, and disregard the rest. Then, too, if here and there a black rain should be a week early or a month late—that would be "acceleration" or "retardation." This is supposed to be legitimate in working out the periodicities of comets. If black rains, or red or yellow rains with black particles in them, should not appear at all near some dates—we have not read Darwin in vain—"the records are not complete." As to other, interfering black rains, they'd be either gray or brown, or for them we'd find other periodicities.

Still, I have had to notice the year 1819, for instance. I shall not note them all in this book, but I have records of 31 extraordinary events in 1883. Someone should write a book upon the phenomena of this one year—that is, if books should be written. 1849 is notable for extraordinary falls, so far apart that a local explanation seems inadequate—not only the black rain of Ireland, May, 1849, but a red rain in Sicily and a red rain in Wales. Also, it is said (Timb's Year Book, 1850-241) that, upon April 18 or 20, 1849, shepherds near Mt. Ararat, found a substance that was not indigenous, upon areas measuring 8 to 10 miles in circumference. Presumably it had fallen there.

We have already gone into the subject of Science and its attempted positiveness, and its resistances in that it must have relations of service. It is very easy to see that most of the theoretic science of the 19th century was only a relation of reaction against theologic dogma, and has no more to do with Truth than has a wave that bounds back from a shore. Or, if a shop girl, or you or I, should

p. 53

pull out a piece of chewing gum about a yard long, that would be quite as scientific a performance as was the stretching of this earth's age several hundred millions of years.

All "things" are not things, but only relations, or expressions of relations: but all relations are striving to be the unrelated, or have surrendered to, and subordinated to, higher attempts. So there is a positivist aspect to this reaction that is itself only a relation, and that is the attempt to assimilate all phenomena under the materialist explanation, or to formulate a final, all-inclusive system, upon the materialist basis. If this attempt could be realized, that would be the attaining of realness; but this attempt can be made only by disregarding psychic phenomena, for instance—or, if science shall eventually give in to the psychic, it would be no more legitimate to explain the immaterial in terms of the material than to explain the material in terms of the immaterial. Our own acceptance is that material and immaterial are of a oneness, merging, for instance, in a thought that is continuous with a physical action: that oneness cannot be explained, because the process of explaining is the interpreting of something in terms of something else. All explanation is assimilation of something in terms of something else that has been taken as a basis: but, in Continuity, there is nothing that is any more basic than anything else—unless we think that delusion built upon delusion is less real than its pseudo-foundation.

In 1829 (Timb's Year Book, 1848-235) in Persia fell a substance that the people said they had never seen before. As to what it was, they had not a notion, but they saw that the sheep ate it. They ground it into flour and made bread, said to have been passable enough, though insipid.

That was a chance that science did not neglect. Manna was placed upon a reasonable basis, or was assimilated and reconciled with the system that had ousted the older—and less nearly real—system. It was said that, likely enough, manna had fallen in ancient times—because it was still falling—but that there was no tutelary influence behind it—that it was a lichen from the steppes of Asia Minor—"up from one place in a whirlwind and down in another place." In the American Almanac, 1833-71, it is said that this substance—"unknown to the inhabitants of the region"—was "immediately recognized"

p. 54

by scientists who examined it: and that "the chemical analysis also identified it as a lichen."

This was back in the days when Chemical Analysis was a god. Since then his devotees have been shocked and disillusioned. Just how a chemical analysis could so botanize, I don't know—but it was Chemical Analysis who spoke, and spoke dogmatically. It seems to me that the ignorance of inhabitants, contrasting with the local knowledge of foreign scientists, is overdone: if there's anything good to eat, within any distance conveniently covered by a whirlwind—inhabitants know it. I have data of other falls, in Persia and Asiatic Turkey, of edible substances. They are all dogmatically said to be "manna"; and "manna" is dogmatically said to be a species of lichens from the steppes of Asia Minor. The position that I take is that this explanation was evolved in ignorance of the fall of vegetable substances, or edible substances, in other parts of the world: that it is the familiar attempt to explain the general in terms of the local; that, if we shall have data of falls of vegetable substance, in, say, Canada or India, they were not of lichens from the steppes of Asia Minor; that, though all falls in Asiatic Turkey and Persia are sweepingly and conveniently called showers of "manna," they have not been even all of the same substance. In one instance the particles are said to have been "seeds." Though, in Comptes Rendus, the substance that fell in 1841 and 1846 is said to have been gelatinous, in the Bull. Sci. Nat. de Neuchatel, it is said to have been of something, in lumps the size of a filbert, that had been ground into flour; that of this flour had been made bread, very attractive-looking, but flavorless.

The great difficulty is to explain segregation in these showers—

But deep-sea fishes and occasional falls, down to them, of edible substances; bags of grain, barrels of sugar; things that had not Been whirled up from one part of the ocean-bottom, in storms or submarine disturbances, and dropped somewhere else—

I suppose one thinks—but grain in bags never has fallen—

Object of Amherst—its covering like "milled cloth"—

Or barrels of corn lost from a vessel would not sink—but a host of them clashing together, after a wreck—they burst open; the corn sinks, or does when saturated; the barrel staves float longer—

p. 55

If there be not an overhead traffic in commodities similar to our own commodities carried over this earth's oceans—I'm not the deep-sea fish I think I am.

I have no data other than the mere suggestion of the Amherst object of bags or barrels, but my notion is that bags and barrels from a wreck on one of this earth's oceans, would, by the time they reached the bottom, no longer be recognizable as bags or barrels; that, if we can have data of the fall of fibrous material that may have been cloth or paper or wood, we shall be satisfactory and grotesque enough.

Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 1-379:

"In the year 1686, some workmen, who had been fetching water from a pond, seven German miles from Memel, on returning to their work after dinner (during which there had been a snowstorm) found the flat ground around the pond covered with a coal-black, leafy mass; and a person who lived near said he had seen it fall like flakes with the snow."

Some of these flake-like formations were as large as a table-top.

"The mass was damp and smelt disagreeably, like rotten seaweed, but, when dried, the smell went off."

"It tore fibrously, like paper."

Classic explanation:

"Up from one place, and down in another."

But what went up, from one place, in a whirlwind? Of course, our Intermediatist acceptance is that had this been the strangest substance conceivable, from the strangest other world that could be thought of; somewhere upon this earth there must be a substance similar to it, or from which it would, at least subjectively, or according to description, not be easily distinguishable. Or that everything in New York City is only another degree or aspect of something, or combination of things, in a village of Central Africa. The novel is a challenge to vulgarization: write something that looks new to you: someone will point out that the thrice-accursed Greeks said it long ago. Existence is Appetite: the gnaw of being; the one attempt of all things to assimilate all other things, if they have not surrendered and submitted to some higher attempt. It was cosmic that these scientists, who had surrendered to and submitted to the

p. 56

[paragraph continues] Scientific System, should, consistently with the principles of that system, attempt to assimilate the substance that fell at Memel with some known terrestrial product. At the meeting of the Royal Irish Academy it was brought out that there is a substance, of rather rare occurrence, that has been known to form in thin sheets upon marsh land.

It looks like greenish felt.

The substance of Memel:

Damp, coal-black, leafy mass.

But, if broken up, the marsh-substance is flake-like, and it tears fibrously.

An elephant can be identified as a sunflower—both have long stems. A camel is indistinguishable from a peanut—if only their humps be considered.

Trouble with this book is that we'll end up a lot of intellectual roués: we'll be incapable of being astonished with anything. We knew, to start with, that science and imbecility are continuous; nevertheless so many expressions of the merging-point are at first startling. We did think that Prof. Hitchcock's performance in identifying the Amherst phenomenon as a fungus was rather notable as scientific vaudeville, if we acquit him of the charge of seriousness—or that, in a place where fungi were so common that, before a given evening two of them sprang up, only he, a stranger in this very fungiferous place, knew a fungus when he saw something like a fungus—if we disregard its quick liquefaction, for instance. It was only a monologue, however: now we have an all-star cast: and they're not only Irish; they're royal Irish.

The royal Irishmen excluded "coal-blackness" and included fibrousness: so then that this substance was "marsh paper," which "had been raised into the air by storms of wind, and had again fallen."

Second act:

It was said that, according to M. Ehrenberg, "the meteor-paper was found to consist partly of vegetable matter, chiefly of conifervæ."

Third act:

Meeting of the royal Irishmen: chairs, tables, Irishmen:

Some flakes of marsh-paper were exhibited.

p. 57

Their composition was chiefly of conifervæ.

This was a double inclusion: or it's the method of agreement that logicians make so much of. So no logician would be satisfied with identifying a peanut as a camel, because both have humps: he demands accessory agreement—that both can live a long time without water, for instance.

Now, it's not so very unreasonable, at least to the free and easy vaudeville standards that, throughout this book, we are considering, to think that a green substance could be snatched up from one place in a whirlwind, and fall as a black substance somewhere else: but the royal Irishmen excluded something else, and it is a datum that was as accessible to them as it is to me:

That, according to Chladni, this was no little, local deposition that was seen to occur by some indefinite person living near a pond somewhere.

It was a tremendous fall from a vast sky-area.

Likely enough all the marsh paper in the world could not have supplied it.

At the same time, this substance was falling "in great quantities," in Norway and Pomerania. Or see Kirkwood, Meteoric Astronomy, p. 66:

"Substance like charred paper fell in Norway and other parts of northern Europe, Jan. 31, 1686."

Or a whirlwind, with a distribution as wide as that, would not acceptably, I should say, have so specialized in the rare substance called "marsh paper." There'd have been falls of fence rails, roofs of houses, parts of trees. Nothing is said of the occurrence of a tornado in northern Europe, in January, 1686. There is record only of this one substance having fallen in various places.

Time went on, but the conventional determination to exclude data of all falls to this earth, except of substances of this earth, and of ordinary meteoric matter, strengthened.

Annals of Philosophy, 16-68:

The substance that fell in January, 1686, is described as "a mass of black leaves, having the appearance of burnt paper, but harder, and cohering, and brittle."

"Marsh paper" is not mentioned, and there is nothing said of the

p. 58

[paragraph continues] "conifervæ," which seemed so convincing to the royal Irishmen. Vegetable composition is disregarded, quite as it might be by someone who might find it convenient to identify a crook-necked squash as a big fishhook.

Meteorites are usually covered with a black crust, more or less scale-like. The substance of 1686 is black and scale-like. If so be convenience, "leaf-likeness" is "scale-likeness." In this attempt to assimilate with the conventional, we are told that the substance is a mineral mass: that it is like the black scales that cover meteorites.

The scientist who made this "identification" was Von Grotthus. He had appealed to the god Chemical Analysis. Or the power and glory of mankind—with which we're not always so impressed—but the gods must tell us what we want them to tell us. We see again that, though nothing has identity of its own, anything can be "identified" as anything. Or there's nothing that's not reasonable, if one snoopeth not into its exclusions. But here the conflict did not end. Berzelius examined the substance. He could not find nickel in it. At that time, the presence of nickel was the "positive" test of meteoritic matter. Whereupon, with a supposititious "positive" standard of judgment against him, Von Grotthus revoked his "identification." (Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., 1-3-185.)

This equalization of eminences permits us to project with our own expression, which, otherwise, would be subdued into invisibility:

That it's too bad that no one ever looked to see—hieroglyphics?—something written upon these sheets of paper?

If we have no very great variety of substances that have fallen to this earth; if, upon this earth's surface there is infinite variety of substances detachable by whirlwinds, two falls of such a rare substance as marsh paper would be remarkable.

A writer in the Edinburgh Review, 87-194, says that, at the time of writing, he had before him a portion of a sheet of 200 square feet, of a substance that had fallen at Carolath, Silesia, in 1839—exactly similar to cotton-felt, of which clothing might have been made. The god Microscopic Examination had spoken. The substance consisted chiefly of conifervæ.

Jour. Asiatic Soc. of Bengal, 1847-pt. 1-193:

p. 59

That March 16, 1846—about the time of a fall of edible substance in Asia Minor—an olive-gray powder fell at Shanghai. Under the microscope, it was seen to be an aggregation of hairs of two kinds, black ones and rather thick white ones. They were supposed to be mineral fibers, but, when burned, they gave out "the common ammoniacal smell and smoke of burnt hair or feathers." The writer described the phenomenon as "a cloud of 3800 square miles of fibers, alkali, and sand." In a postscript, he says that other investigators, with more powerful microscopes, gave opinion that the fibers were not hairs; that the substance consisted chiefly of conifervæ.

Or the pathos of it, perhaps; or the dull and uninspired, but courageous persistence of the scientific: everything seemingly found out is doomed to be subverted—by more powerful microscopes and telescopes; by more refined, precise, searching means and methods—the new pronouncements irrepressibly bobbing up; their reception always as Truth at last; always the illusion of the final; very little of the Intermediatist spirit

That the new that has displaced the old will itself some day be displaced; that it, too, will be recognized as myth-stuffBut that if phantoms climb, spooks of ladders are good enough for them.

Annual Register, 1821-681:

That, according to a report by M. Lainé, French Consul at Pernambuco, early in October, 1821, there was a shower of a substance resembling silk. The quantity was as tremendous as might be a whole cargo, lost somewhere between Jupiter and Mars, having drifted around perhaps for centuries, the original fabrics slowly disintegrating. In Annales de Chimie, 2-15-427, it is said that samples of this substance were sent to France by M. Lainé, and that they proved to have some resemblances to silky filaments which, at certain times of the year, are carried by the wind near Paris.

In the Annals of Philosophy, n.s, 12-93, there is mention of a fibrous substance like blue silk that fell near Naumberg, March 23, 1665. According to Chladni (Annales de Chimie, 2-31-264), the quantity was great. He places a question mark before the date.

One of the advantages of Intermediatism is that, in the oneness of quasiness, there can be no mixed metaphors. Whatever is acceptable

p. 60

of anything, is, in some degree or aspect, acceptable of everything. So it is quite proper to speak, for instance, of something that is as firm as a rock and that sails in a majestic march. The Irish are good monists: they have of course been laughed at for their keener perceptions. So it's a book we're writing, or it's a procession, or it's a museum, with the Chamber of Horrors rather over-emphasized. A rather horrible correlation occurs in the Scientific American, 1859-178. What interests us is that a correspondent saw a silky substance fall from the sky—there was an aurora borealis at the time—he attributes the substance to the aurora.

Since the time of Darwin, the classic explanation has been that all silky substances that fall from the sky are spider webs. In 1832, aboard the Beagle, at the mouth of La Plata River, 60 miles from land, Darwin saw an enormous number of spiders, of the kind usually known as "gossamer" spiders, little aeronauts that cast out filaments by which the wind carries them.

It's difficult to express that silky substances that have fallen to this earth were not spider webs. My own acceptance is that spider webs are the merger; that there have been falls of an externally derived silky substance, and also of the webs, or strands, rather, of aeronautic spiders indigenous to this earth; that in some instances it is impossible to distinguish one from the other. Of course, our expression upon silky substances will merge away into expressions upon other seeming textile substances, and I don't know how much better off we'll be

Except that, if fabricable materials have fallen from the sky—

Simply to establish acceptance of that may be doing well enough in this book of first and tentative explorations.

In All the Year Round, 8-254, is described a fall that took place in England, Sept. 21, 1741, in the towns of Bradly, Selborne, and Alresford, and in a triangular space included by these three towns. The substance is described as "cobwebs"—but it fell in flake-formation, or in "flakes or rags about one inch broad and five or six inches long." Also these flakes were of a relatively heavy substance—"they fell with some velocity." The quantity was great—the shortest side of the triangular space is eight miles long. In the Wernerian Nat, Hist. Soc. Trans., 5-386, it is said that there were two falls—that they

p. 61

were some hours apart—a datum that is becoming familiar to us—a datum that cannot be taken into the fold, unless we find it repeated over and over and over again. It is said that the second fall lasted from nine o'clock in the morning until night.

Now the hypnosis of the classic—that what we call intelligence is only an expression of inequilibrium; that when mental adjustments are made, intelligence ceases—or, of course, that intelligence is the confession of ignorance. If you have intelligence upon any subject, that is something you're still learning—if we agree that that which is learned is always mechanically done—in quasi-terms, of course, because nothing is ever finally learned.

It was decided that this substance was spiders’ web. That was adjustment. But it's not adjustment to me; so I'm afraid I shall have some intelligence in this matter. If I ever arrive at adjustment upon this subject, then, upon this subject, I shall be able to have no thoughts, except routine-thoughts. I haven't yet quite decided absolutely everything, so I am able to point out:

That this substance was of quantity so enormous that it attracted wide attention when it came down—

That it would have been equally noteworthy when it went up—

That there is no record of anyone, in England or elsewhere, having seen tons of "spider webs" going up, September, 1741.

Further confession of intelligence upon my part:

That, if it be contested, then, that the place of origin may have been far away, but still terrestrial—

Then it's that other familiar matter of incredible "marksmanship" again—hitting a small, triangular space for hours—interval of hours—then from nine in the morning until night: same small triangular space.

These are the disregards of the classic explanation. There is no mention of spiders having been seen to fall, but a good inclusion is that, though this substance fell in good-sized flakes of considerable weight, it was viscous. In this respect it was like cobwebs: dogs nosing it on grass, were blindfolded with it. This circumstance does strongly suggest cobwebs—

Unless we can accept that, in regions aloft, there are vast viscous or gelatinous areas, and that things passing through become daubed.

p. 62

[paragraph continues] Or perhaps we clear up the confusion in the descriptions of the substance that fell in 1841 and 1846, in Asia Minor, described in one publication as gelatinous, and in another as a cereal—that it was a cereal that had passed through a gelatinous region. That the paper-like substance of Memel may have had such an experience may be indicated in that Ehrenberg found in it gelatinous matter, which he called "nostoc." (Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., I-3-185.)

Scientific American, 45-337:

Fall of a substance described as "cobwebs," latter part of October, 1881, in Milwaukee, Wis., and other towns: other towns mentioned are Green Bay, Vesburge, Fort Howard, Sheboygan, and Ozaukee. The aeronautic spiders are known as "gossamer" spiders, because of the extreme lightness of the filaments that they cast out to the wind. Of the substance that fell in Wisconsin, it is said:

"In all instances the webs were strong in texture and very white."

The Editor says:

"Curiously enough, there is no mention in any of the reports that we have seen, of the presence of spiders."

So our attempt to divorce a possible external product from its terrestrial merger: then our joy of the prospector who thinks he's found something:

The Monthly Weather Review, 26-566, quotes the Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser:

That, upon Nov. 21, 1898, numerous batches of spider-web-like substance fell in Montgomery, in strands and in occasional masses several inches long and several inches broad. According to the writer, it was not spiders’ web, but something like asbestos; also that it was phosphorescent.

The Editor of the Review says that he sees no reason for doubting that these masses were cobwebs.

La Nature, 1883-342:

A correspondent writes that he sends a sample of a substance said to have fallen at Montussan (Gironde), Oct. 16, 1883. According to a witness, quoted by the correspondent, a thick cloud, accompanied by rain and a violent wind, had appeared. This cloud was composed of a woolly substance in lumps the size of a fist, which fell to the ground. The Editor (Tissandier) says of this substance

p. 63

that it was white, but was something that had been burned. It was fibrous. M. Tissandier astonishes us by saying that he cannot identify this substance. We thought that anything could be "identified" as anything. He can say only that the cloud in question must have been an extraordinary conglomeration.

Annual Register, 1832-447:

That, March, 1832, there fell, in the fields of Kourianof, Russia, a combustible yellowish substance, covering, at least two inches thick, an area of 600 or 700 square feet. It was resinous and yellowish: so one inclines to the conventional explanation that it was pollen from pine trees—but, when torn, it had the tenacity of cotton. When placed in water, it had the consistency of resin. "This resin had the color of amber, was elastic, like India rubber, and smelled like prepared oil mixed with wax."

So in general our notion of cargoes—and our notion of cargoes of food supplies:

In Philosophical Transactions, 19-224, is an extract from a letter by Mr. Robert Vans, of Kilkenny, Ireland, dated Nov. 15, 1695: that there had been "of late," in the counties of Limerick and Tipperary, showers of a sort of matter like butter or grease … having "a very stinking smell."

There follows an extract from a letter by the Bishop of Cloyne, upon "a very odd phenomenon," which was observed in Munster and Leinster: that for a good part of the spring of 1695 there fell a substance which the country people called "butter"—"soft, clammy, and of a dark yellow"—that cattle fed "indifferently" in fields where this substance lay.

"It fell in lumps as big as the end of one's finger." It had a "strong ill scent." His Grace calls it a "stinking dew."

In Mr. Vans' letter, it is said that the "butter" was supposed to have medicinal properties, and "was gathered in pots and other vessels by some of the inhabitants of this place."

And:

In all the following volumes of Philosophical Transactions there is no speculation upon this extraordinary subject. Ostracism. The fate of this datum is a good instance of damnation, not by denial, and not by explaining away, but by simple disregard. The fall is

p. 64

listed by Chladni, and is mentioned in other catalogues, but, from the absence of all inquiry, and of all but formal mention, we see that it has been under excommunication as much as was ever anything by the preceding system. The datum has been buried alive. It is as irreconcilable with the modern system of dogmas as ever were geologic strata and vermiform appendix with the preceding system

If, intermittently, or "for a good part of the spring," this substance fell in two Irish provinces, and nowhere else, we have, stronger than before, a sense of a stationary region overhead, or a region that receives products like this earth's products, but from external sources, a region in which this earth's gravitational and meteorological forces are relatively inert—if for many weeks a good part of this substance did hover before finally falling. We suppose that, in 1685, Mr. Vans and the Bishop of Cloyne could describe what they saw as well as could witnesses in 1885: nevertheless, it is going far back; we shall have to have many modern instances before we can accept.

As to other falls, or another fall, it is said in the Amer. Jour. Sci., 1-28-361, that, April u, 1832—about a month after the fall of the substance of Kourianof—fell a substance that was wine-yellow, transparent, soft, and smelling like rancid oil. M. Herman, a chemist who examined it, named it "sky oil." For analysis and chemic reactions, see the Journal. The Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, 13-368, mentions an "unctuous" substance that fell near Rotterdam, in 1832. In Comptes Rendus, 13-215, there is an account of an oily, reddish matter that fell at Genoa, February, 1841.

Whatever it may have been—

Altogether, most of our difficulties are problems that we should leave to later developers of super-geography, I think. A discoverer of America should leave Long Island to someone else. If there he, plying back and forth from Jupiter and Mars and Venus, super-constructions that are sometimes wrecked, we think of fuel as well as cargoes. Of course the most convincing data would be of coal falling from the sky: nevertheless, one does suspect that oil-burning engines were discovered ages ago in more advanced worlds—but, as I say, we should leave something to our disciples—so we'll not especially wonder whether these butter-like or oily substances were food or fuel. So we merely note that in the Scientific American, 24-323,

p. 65

is an account of hail that fell, in the middle of April, 1871, in Mississippi, in which was a substance described as turpentine.

Something that tasted like orange water, in hailstones, about the first of June, 1842, near Nimes, France; identified as nitric acid (Jour. de Pharmacie, 1845-273).

Hail and ashes, in Ireland, 1755 (Sci. Amer., 5-168).

That, at Elizabeth, N. J., June 9, 1874, fell hail in which was a substance, said, by Prof. Leeds, of Stevens Institute, to be carbonate of soda (Sci. Amer., 30-262).

We are getting a little away from the lines of our composition, but it will be an important point later that so many extraordinary falls have occurred with hail. Or—if they were of substances that had had origin upon some other part of this earth's surface—had the hail, too, that origin? Our acceptance here will depend upon the number of instances. Reasonably enough, some of the things that fall to this earth should coincide with falls of hail.

As to vegetable substances in quantities so great as to suggest lost cargoes, we have a note in the Intellectual Observer, 3-468: that, upon the first of May, 1863, a rain fell at Perpignan, "bringing down with it a red substance, which proved on examination to be a red meal mixed with fine sand." At various points along the Mediterranean, this substance fell.

There is, in Philosophical Transactions, 16-281, an account of a seeming cereal, said to have fallen in Wiltshire, in 1686—said that some of the "wheat" fell "enclosed in hailstones"—but the writer in Transactions, says that he had examined the grains, and that they were nothing but seeds of ivy berries dislodged from holes and chinks where birds had hidden them. If birds still hide ivy seeds, and if winds still blow, I don't see why the phenomenon has not repeated in more than two hundred years since.

Or the red matter in rain, at Siena, Italy, May, 1830; said, by Arago, to have been vegetable matter (Arago, Œuvres, 12-468).

Somebody should collect data of falls at Siena alone.

In the Monthly Weather Review, 29-465, a correspondent writes that, upon Feb. 16, 1901, at Pawpaw, Michigan, upon a day that was so calm that his windmill did not run, fell a brown dust that looked like vegetable matter. The Editor of the Review concludes that this

p. 66

was no widespread fall from a tornado, because it had been reported from nowhere else.

Rancidness—putridity—decomposition—a note that has been struck many times. In a positive sense, of course, nothing means anything, or every meaning is continuous with all other meanings: or that all evidences of guilt, for instance, are just as good evidences of innocence—but this condition seems to mean—things lying around among the stars a long time. Horrible disaster in the time of Julius Cæsar; remains from it not reaching this earth till the time of the Bishop of Cloyne: we leave to later research the discussion of bacterial action and decomposition, and whether bacteria could survive in what we call space, of which we know nothing

Chemical News, 35-183:

Dr. A. T. Machattie, F.C.S., writes that, at London, Ontario, Feb. 24, 1868, in a violent storm, fell, with snow, a dark-colored substance, estimated at 500 tons, over a belt 50 miles by 10 miles. It was examined under a microscope, by Dr. Machattie, who found it to consist mainly of vegetable matter "far advanced in decomposition." The substance was examined by Dr. James Adams, of Glasgow, who gave his opinion that it was the remains of cereals. Dr. Machattie points out that for months before this fall the ground of Canada had been frozen, so that in this case a more than ordinarily remote origin has to be thought of. Dr. Machattie thinks of origin to the south. "However," he says, "this is mere conjecture."

Amer. Jour. Sci., 1841-40:

That, March 24, 1840—during a thunderstorm—at Rajkit, India, occurred a fall of grain. It was reported by Col. Sykes, of the British Association.

The natives were greatly excited—because it was grain of a kind unknown to them.

Usually comes forward a scientist who knows more of the things that natives know best than the natives know—but it so happens that the usual thing was not done definitely in this instance:

"The grain was shown to some botanists, who did not immediately recognize it, but thought it to be either a spartium or a vicia.'

6

Lead, silver, diamonds, glass.

They sound like the accursed, but they're not: they're now of the chosen—that is, when they occur in metallic or stony masses that Science has recognized as meteorites. We find that resistance is to substances not so mixed in or incorporated.

Of accursed data, it seems to me that punk is pretty damnable. In the Report of the British Association, 1878-376, there is mention of a light chocolate-brown substance that has fallen with meteorites. No particulars given; not another mention anywhere else that I can find. In this English publication, the word "punk" is not used; the substance is called "amadou." I suppose, if the datum has anywhere been admitted to French publications, the word "amadou" has been avoided, and "punk" used.

Or oneness of allness: scientific works and social registers: a Goldstein who can't get in as Goldstein, gets in as Jackson.

The fall of sulphur from the sky has been especially repulsive to the modern orthodoxy—largely because of its associations with the superstitions or principles of the preceding orthodoxy—stories of devils: sulphurous exhalations. Several writers have said that they have had this feeling. So the scientific reactionists, who have rabidly fought the preceding, because it was the preceding: and the scientific prudes, who, in sheer exclusionism, have held lean hands over pale eyes, denying falls of sulphur. I have many notes upon the sulphurous odor of meteorites, and many notes upon phosphorescence of things that come from externality. Some day I shall look over old stories of demons that have appeared sulphurously upon this earth, with the idea of expressing that we have often had undesirable visitors from other worlds; or that an indication of external derivation is sulphurousness. I expect some day to rationalize demonology, but just at present we are scarcely far enough advanced to go so far back.

p. 68

For a circumstantial account of a mass of burning sulphur, about the size of a man's fist, that fell at Pultusk, Poland, Jan. 30, 1868, upon a road, where it was stamped out by a crowd of villagers, see Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1874-272.

The power of the exclusionists lies in that in their stand are combined both modern and archaic systematists. Falls of sandstone and limestone are repulsive to both theologians and scientists. Sandstone and limestone suggest other worlds upon which occur processes like geological processes; but limestone, as a fossiliferous substance, is of course especially of the unchosen.

In Science, March 9, 1888, we read of a block of limestone, said to have fallen near Middleburg, Florida. It was exhibited at the Sub-tropical Exposition, at Jacksonville. The writer, in Science, denies that it fell from the sky. His reasoning is:

There is no limestone in the sky;

Therefore this limestone did not fall from the sky.

Better reasoning I cannot conceive of—because we see that a final major premise—universal—true—would include all things: that, then, would leave nothing to reason about—so then that all reasoning must be based upon "something" not universal, or only a phantom intermediate to the two finalities of nothingness and allness, or negativeness and positiveness.

La Nature, 1890-2-127:

Fall, at Pel-et-Der (L’Aube), France, June 6, 1890, of limestone pebbles. Identified with limestone at Château-Landon—or up and down in a whirlwind. But they fell with hail—which, in June, could not very well be identified with ice from Château-Landon. Coincidence, perhaps.

Upon page 70, Science Gossip, 1887, the Editor says, of a stone that was reported to have fallen at Little Lever, England, that a sample had been sent to him. It was sandstone. Therefore it had not fallen, but had been on the ground in the first place. But, upon page 140, Science Gossip, 1887, is an account of "a large, smooth, waterworn, gritty sandstone pebble" that had been found in the wood of a full-grown beech tree. Looks to me as if it had fallen red-hot, and had penetrated the tree with high velocity.

p. 69

[paragraph continues] But I have never heard of anything falling red-hot from a whirl-wind—

The wood around this sandstone pebble was black, as if charred.

Dr. Farrington, for instance, in his books, does not even mention sandstone. However, the British Association, though reluctant, is less exclusive: Report of 1860, p. 197: substance about the size of a duck's egg, that fell at Raphoe, Ireland, June 9, 1860—date questioned. It is not definitely said that this substance was sandstone, but that it "resembled" friable sandstone.

Falls of salt have occurred often. They have been avoided by scientific writers, because of the dictum that only water and not substances held in solution, can be raised by evaporation. However, falls of salty water have received attention from Dalton and others, and have been attributed to whirlwinds from the sea. This is so reasonably contested—quasi-reasonably—as to places not far from the sea—

But the fall of salt that occurred high in the mountains of Switzerland—

We could have predicted that that datum could be found somewhere. Let anything be explained in local terms of the coast of England-but also has it occurred high in the mountains of Switzerland.

Large crystals of salt fell—in a hailstorm—Aug. 20, 1870, in Switzerland. The orthodox explanation is a crime: whoever made it, should have had his finger-prints taken. We are told (An. Rec. Sci., 1872) that these objects of salt "came over the Mediterranean from some part of Africa."

Or the hypnosis of the conventional—provided it be glib. One reads such an assertion, and provided it be suave and brief and conventional, one seldom questions—or thinks "very strange" and then forgets. One has an impression from geography lessons: Mediterranean not more than three inches wide, on the map; Switzerland only a few more inches away. These sizable masses of salt are described in the Amer. Jour. Sci., 3-3-239, as "essentially imperfect cubic crystals of common salt." As to occurrence with hail—that can in one, or ten, or twenty, instances be called a coincidence.

p. 70

Another datum: extraordinary year 1883:

London Times, Dec. 25, 1883:

Translation from a Turkish newspaper; a substance that fell at Scutari, Dec. 2, 1883; described as an unknown substance, in particles—or flakes?—like snow. "It was found to be saltish to the taste, and to dissolve readily in water."

Miscellaneous:

"Black, capillary matter" that fell, Nov. 16, 1857, at Charleston, S. C. (Amer. Jour. Sci., 2-31-459).

Fall of small, friable, vesicular masses, from size of a pea to size of a walnut, at Lobau, Jan. 18, 1835 (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1860-85).

Objects that fell at Peshawur, India, June, 1893, during a storm: substance that looked like crystallized niter, and that tasted like sugar (Nature, July 13, 1893).

I suppose sometimes deep-sea fishes have their noses bumped by cinders. If their regions be subjacent to Cunard or White Star routes, they're especially likely to be bumped. I conceive of no inquiry: they're deep-sea fishes.

Or the slag of Slains. That it was a furnace-product. The Rev. James Rust seemed to feel bumped. He tried in vain to arouse inquiry.

As to a report, from Chicago, April 9, 1879, that slag had fallen from the sky, Prof. E. S. Bastian (Amer. Jour. Sci., 3-18-78) says that the slag "had been on the ground in the first place." It was furnace-slag. "A chemical examination of the specimens has shown that they possess none of the characteristics of true meteorites."

Over and over and over again, the universal delusion; hope and despair of attempted positivism; that there can be real criteria, or distinct characteristics of anything. If anybody can define—not merely suppose, like Prof. Bastian, that he can define—the true characteristics of anything, or so localize trueness anywhere, he makes the discovery for which the cosmos is laboring. He will be instantly translated, like Elijah, into the Positive Absolute. My own notion is that, in a moment of super-concentration, Elijah became so nearly a real prophet that he was translated to heaven, or to the Positive Absolute, with such velocity that he left an incandescent

p. 71

train behind him. As we go along, we shall find the "true test of meteoritic material," which in the past has been taken as an absolute, dissolving into almost utmost nebulosity. Prof. Bastian explains mechanically, or in terms of the usual reflexes to all reports of unwelcome substances: that near where the slag had been found, telegraph wires had been struck by lightning; that particles of melted wire had been seen to fall near the slag—which had been on the ground in the first place. But, according to the New York Times, April 14, 1879, about two bushels of this substance had fallen.

Something that was said to have fallen at Darmstadt, June 7, 1846; listed by Greg (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1867-416) as "only slag."

Philosophical Magazine, 4-10-381:

That, in 1855, a large stone was found far in the interior of a tree, in Battersea Fields.

Sometimes cannon balls are found embedded in trees. Doesn't seem to be anything to discuss; doesn't seem discussable that any one would cut a hole in a tree and hide a cannon ball, which one could take to bed, and hide under one's pillow, just as easily. So with the stone of Battersea Fields. What is there to say, except that it fell with high velocity and embedded in the tree? Nevertheless, there was a great deal of discussion—

Because, at the foot of the tree, as if broken off the stone, fragments of slag were found.

I have nine other instances.

Slag and cinders and ashes, and you won't believe, and neither will I, that they came from the furnaces of vast aerial superconstructions. We'll see what looks acceptable.

As to ashes, the difficulties are great, because we'd expect many falls of terrestrially derived ashes—volcanoes and forest fires.

In some of our acceptances, I have felt a little radical—

I suppose that one of our main motives is to show that there is, in quasi-existence, nothing but the preposterous—or something intermediate to absolute preposterousness and final reasonableness—that the new is the obviously preposterous; that it becomes the established and disguisedly preposterous; that it is displaced, after a while, and is again seen to be the preposterous. Or that all progress

p. 72

is from the outrageous to the academic or sanctified, and back to the outrageous—modified, however, by a trend of higher and higher approximation to the impreposterous. Sometimes I feel a little more uninspired than at other times, but I think we're pretty well accustomed now to the oneness of allness; or that the methods of science in maintaining its system are as outrageous as the attempts of the damned to break in. In the Annual Record of Science, 1875-241, Prof. Daubrée is quoted: that ashes that had fallen in the Azores had come from the Chicago fire—

Or the damned and the saved, and there's little to choose between them; and angels are beings that have not obviously barbed tails to them—or never have such bad manners as to stroke an angel below the waist-line.

However this especial outrage was challenged: the Editor of the Record returns to it, in the issue of 1876: considers it "in the highest degree improper to say that the ashes of Chicago were landed in the Azores."

Bull. Soc. Astro. de France, 22-245:

Account of a white substance, like ashes, that fell at Annoy, France, March 27, 1908: simply called a curious phenomenon; no attempt to trace to a terrestrial source.

Flake formations, which may signify passage through a region of pressure, are common; but spherical formations—as if of things that have rolled and rolled along planar regions somewhere—are commoner:

Nature, Jan. 10, 1884, quotes a Kimberley newspaper:

That, toward the close of November, 1883, a thick shower of ashy matter fell at Queenstown, South Africa. The matter was in marble-sized balls, which were soft and pulpy, but which, upon drying, crumbled at touch. The shower was confined to one narrow streak of land. It would be only ordinarily preposterous to attribute this substance to Krakatoa—

But, with the fall, loud noises were heard—

But I'll omit many notes upon ashes: if ashes should sift down upon deep-sea fishes, that is not to say that they came from steamships.

Data of falls of cinders have been especially damned by Mr.

p. 73

[paragraph continues] Symons, the meteorologist, some of whose investigations we'll investigate later—nevertheless—

Notice of a fall, in Victoria, Australia, April 14, 1875 (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1875-242)—at least we are told, in the reluctant way, that someone "thought" he saw matter fall near him at night, and the next day found something that looked like cinders.

In the Proc. of the London Roy. Soc., 19-122, there is an account of cinders that fell on the deck of a lightship, Jan. 9, 1873. In the Amer. Jour. Sci., 2-24-449, there is a notice that the Editor had received a specimen of cinders said to have fallen—in showery weather—upon a farm, near Ottowa, Ill., Jan. 17, 1857.

But after all, ambiguous things they are, cinders or ashes or slag or clinkers, the high priest of the accursed that must speak aloud for us is—coal that has fallen from the sky.

Or coke:

The person who thought he saw something like cinders, also thought he saw something like coke, we are told.

Nature, 36-119:

Something that "looked exactly like coke" that fell—during a thunderstorm—in the Orne, France, April 24, 1887.

Or charcoal:

Dr. Angus Smith, in the Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Manchester Memoirs, 2-9-146, says that, about 1827—like a great deal in Lyell's Principles and Darwin's Origin, this account is from hearsay—something fell from the sky, near Allport, England. It fell luminously, with a loud report, and scattered in a field. A fragment that was seen by Dr. Smith, is described by him as having "the appearance of a piece of common wood charcoal." Nevertheless, the reassured feeling of the faithful, upon reading this, is burdened with data of differences: the substance was so uncommonly heavy that it seemed as if it had iron in it; also there was "a sprinkling of sulphur." This material is said, by Prof. Baden-Powell, to be "totally unlike that of any other meteorite." Greg, in his catalogue (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1860-73), calls it "a more than doubtful substance"—but again, against reassurance, that is not doubt of authenticity. Greg says that it is like compact charcoal. With particles of sulphur and iron pyrites embedded.

p. 74

Reassurance rises again:

Prof. Baden-Powell says: "It contains also charcoal, which might perhaps be acquired from matter among which it fell."

This is a common reflex with the exclusionists: that substances not "truly meteoritic" did not fall from the sky, but were picked up by "truly meteoritic" things, of course only on their surfaces, by impact with this earth.

Rhythm of reassurances and their declines:

According to Dr. Smith, this substance was not merely coated with charcoal; his analysis gives 43.59 per cent carbon.

Our acceptance that coal has fallen from the sky will be via data of resinous substances and bituminous substances, which merge so that they cannot be told apart.

Resinous substance said to have fallen at Kaba, Hungary, April 15, 1887 (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1860-94).

A resinous substance that fell after a fireball? at Neuhaus, Bohemia, Dec. 17, 1824 (Rept. Brit. Assoc., 1860-70).

Fall, July 28, 1885, at Luchon, during a storm, of a brownish substance; very friable, carbonaceous matter; when burned it gave out a resinous odor (Comptes Rendus, 103-837).

Substance that fell, Feb. 17, 18, 19, 1841, at Genoa, Italy, said to have been resinous; said by Arago (Œuvres, 12-469) to have been bituminous matter and sand.

Fall—during a thunderstorm—July, 1681, near Cape Cod, upon the deck of an English vessel, the Albemarle, of "burning, bituminous matter" (Edin. New Phil. Jour., 26-86); a fall, at Christiania, Norway, June 13, 1822, of bituminous matter, listed by Greg as doubtful; fall of bituminous matter, in Germany, March 8, 1798, listed by Greg. Lockyer (The Meteoric Hypothesis, p. 24) says that the substance that fell at the Cape of Good Hope, Oct. 13, 1838—about five cubic feet of it: substance so soft that it was cuttable with a knife—"after being experimented upon, it left a residue, which gave out a very bituminous smell."

And this inclusion of Lockyer's—so far as findable in all books that I have read—is, in books, about as close as we can get to our desideratum—that coal has fallen from the sky. Dr. Farrington, except with a brief mention, ignores the whole subject of the fall

p. 75

of carbonaceous matter from the sky. Proctor, in all of his books that I have read—is, in books, about as close as we can get to the admission that carbonaceous matter has been found in meteorites "in very minute quantities"—or my own suspicion is that it is possible to damn something else only by losing one's own soul—quasi-soul, of course.

Sci. Amer., 35-120:

That the substance that fell at the Cape of Good Hope "resembled a piece of anthracite coal more than anything else."

It's a mistake, I think: the resemblance is to bituminous coal—but it is from the periodicals that we must get our data. To the writers of books upon meteorites, it would be as wicked—by which we mean departure from the characters of an established species—quasi-established, of course—to say that coal has fallen from the sky, as would be, to something in a barnyard, a temptation that it climb a tree and catch a bird. Domestic things in a barnyard: and how wild things from forests outside seem to them. Or the homeopathist—but we shall shovel data of coal.

And, if over and over, we shall learn of masses of soft coal that have fallen upon this earth, if in no instance has it been asserted that the masses did not fall, but were upon the ground in the first place; if we have many instances, this time we turn down good and hard the mechanical reflex that these masses were carried from one place to another in whirlwinds, because we find it too difficult to accept that whirlwinds could so select, or so specialize in a peculiar substance. Among writers of books, the only one I know of who makes more than brief mention is Sir Robert Ball. He represents a still more antique orthodoxy, or is an exclusionist of the old type, still holding out against even meteorites. He cites several falls of carbonaceous matter, but with disregards that make for reasonableness that earthy matter may have been caught up by whirlwinds and flung down somewhere else. If he had given a full list, he would be called upon to explain the special affinity of whirlwinds for a special kind of coal. He does not give a full list. We shall have all that's findable, and we shall see that against this disease we're writing, the homeopathist's prescription availeth not. Another exclusionist was Prof. Lawrence Smith. His psycho-tropism

p. 76

was to respond to all reports of carbonaceous matter falling from the sky, by saying that this damned matter had been deposited upon things of the chosen by impact with this earth. Most of our data antedate him, or were contemporaneous with him, or were as accessible to him as to us. In his attempted positivism it is simply—and beautifully—disregarded that, according to Berthelot, Berzelius, Cloez, Wohler and others these masses are not merely coated with carbonaceous matter, but are carbonaceous throughout, or are permeated throughout. How anyone could so resolutely and dogmatically and beautifully and blindly hold out would puzzle us were it not for our acceptance that only to think is to exclude and include; and to exclude some things that have as much right to come in as have the included—that to have an opinion upon any subject is to be a Lawrence Smith—because there is no definite subject.

Dr. Walter Flight (Eclectic Magazine, 89-71) says, of the substance that fell near Alais, France, March 15, 1806, that it "emits a faint bituminous substance" when heated, according to the observations of Bergelius and a commission appointed by the French Academy. This time we have not the reluctances expressed in such words as "like" and "resembling." We are told that this substance is "an earthy kind of coal."

As to "minute quantities" we are told that the substance that fell at the Cape of Good Hope has in it a little more than a quarter of organic matter, which, in alcohol, gives the familiar reaction of yellow, resinous matter. Other instances given by Dr. Flight are:

Carbonaceous matter that fell in 1840, in Tennessee; Cranbourne, Australia, 1861; Montauban, France, May 14, 1864 (twenty masses, some of them as large as a human head, of a substance that "resembled a dull-colored earthy lignite"); Goalpara, India, about 1867 (about 8 per cent of a hydrocarbon); at Ornans, France, July 11, 1868; substance with "an organic, combustible ingredient," at Hessle, Sweden, Jan. 1, 1860.

Knowledge, 4-134:

That, according to M. Daubrée, the substance that had fallen in the Argentine Republic, "resembled certain kinds of lignite and boghead coal." In Comptes Rendus, 96-1764, it is said that this

p. 77

mass fell, June 30, 1880, in the province Entre Rios, Argentina: that it is "like" brown coal; that it resembles all the other carbonaceous masses that have fallen from the sky.

Something that fell at Grazac, France, Aug. 10, 1885: when burned, it gave out a bituminous odor (Comptes Rendus, 104-1771).

Carbonaceous substance that fell at Rajpunta, India, Jan. 22, 1911: very friable: 50 per cent of its soluble in water (Records Geol. Survey of India, 44-pt. 1-41).

A combustible carbonaceous substance that fell with sand at Naples, March 14, 1818 (Amer. Jour. Sci., 1-1-309).

Sci. Amer. Sup., 29-11798:

That, June 9, 1889, a very friable substance, of a deep, greenish black, fell at Mighei, Russia. It contained 5 per cent organic matter, which, when powdered and digested in alcohol, yielded, after evaporation, a bright yellow resin. In this mass was 2 per cent of an unknown mineral.

Cinders and ashes and slag and coke and charcoal and coal.

And the things that sometimes deep-sea fishes are bumped by.

Reluctances and the disguises or covered retreats of such words as "like" and "resemble"—or that conditions of Intermediateness forbid abrupt transitions—but that the spirit animating all Intermediateness is to achieve abrupt transitions—because, if anything could finally break away from its origin and environment, that would be a real thing—something not merging away indistinguishably with the surrounding. So all attempt to be original; all attempt to invent something that is more than mere extension or modification of the preceding, is positivism—or that if one could conceive of a device to catch flies, positively different from, or unrelated to, all other devices—up he'd shoot to heaven, or the Positive Absolute—leaving behind such an incandescent train that in one age it would be said that he had gone aloft in a fiery chariot, and in another age that he had been struck by lightning—

I'm collecting notes upon persons supposed to have been struck by lightning. I think that high approximation to positivism has often been achieved—instantaneous translation—residue of negativeness left behind, looking much like effects of a stroke of lightning. Some day I shall tell the story of the Marie Celeste—"properly,"

p. 78

as the Scientific American Supplement would say—mysterious disappearance of a sea captain, his family, and the crew—

Of positivists, by the route of Abrupt Transition, I think that Manet was notable—but that his approximation was held down by his intense relativity to the public—or that it is quite as impositive to flout and insult and defy as it is to crawl and placate. Of course, Manet began with continuity with Courbet and others, and then, between him and Manet there were mutual influences—but the spirit of abrupt difference is the spirit of positivism, and Manet's stand was against the dictum that all lights and shades must merge away suavely into one another and prepare for one another. So a biologist like De Vries represents positivism, or the breaking of Continuity, by trying to conceive of evolution by mutation—against the dogma of indistinguishable gradations by "minute variations." A Copernicus conceives of helio-centricity. Continuity is against him. He is not permitted to break abruptly with the past. He is permitted to publish his work, but only as "an interesting hypothesis."

Continuity—and that all that we call evolution or progress is attempt to break away from it—

That our whole solar system was at one time attempt by planets to break away from a parental nexus and set up as individualities, and, failing, move in quasi-regular orbits that are expressions of relations with the sun and with one another, all having surrendered, being now quasi-incorporated in a higher approximation to system;

Intermediateness in its mineralogic aspect of positivism—or Iron that strove to break away from Sulphur and Oxygen, and be real, homogeneous Iron—failing, inasmuch as elemental iron exists only in text-book chemistry;

Intermediateness in its biologic aspect of positivism—or the wild, fantastic, grotesque, monstrous things it conceived of, sometimes in a frenzy of effort to break away abruptly from all preceding types—but failing, in the giraffe-effort, for instance, or only caricaturing an antelope—

All things break one relation only by the establishing of some other relation—

All things cut an umbilical cord only to clutch a breast.

p. 79

So the fight of the exclusionists to maintain the traditional—or to prevent abrupt transition from the quasi-established—fighting so that here, more than a century after meteorites were included, no other notable inclusion has been made, except that of cosmic dust, data of which Nordenskiold made more nearly real than data in opposition.

So Proctor, for instance, fought and expressed his feeling of the preposterous, against Sir W. H. Thomson's notions of arrival upon this earth of organisms on meteorites—

"I can only regard it as a jest" (Knowledge, 1-302).

Or that there is nothing but jest—or something intermediate to jest and tragedy;

That ours is not an existence but an utterance;

That Momus is imagining us for the amusement of the gods, often with such success that some of us seem almost alive—like characters in something a novelist is writing; which often to considerable degree take their affairs away from the novelist—

That Momus is imagining us and our arts and sciences and religions, and is narrating or picturing us as a satire upon the gods’ real existence.

Because—with many of our data of coal that has fallen from the sky as accessible then as they are now, and with the scientific pronouncement that coal is fossil, how, in a real existence, by which we mean a consistent existence, or a state in which there is real intelligence, or a form of thinking that does not indistinguishably merge away with imbecility, could there have been such a row as that which was raised about forty years ago over Dr. Hahn's announcement that he had found fossils in meteorites?

Accessible to anybody at that time:

Philosophical Magazine, 4-17-425:

That the substance that fell at Kaba, Hungary, April 15, 1857, contained organic matter "analagous to fossil waxes."

Or limestone:

Of the block of limestone which was reported to have fallen at Middleburg, Florida, it is said (Science, 11-118) that, though something had been seen to fall in "an old cultivated field," the witnesses

p. 80

who ran to it picked up something that "had been upon the ground in the first place." The writer who tells us this, with the usual exclusion-imagination known as stupidity, but unjustly, because there is no real stupidity, thinks he can think of a good-sized stone that had for many years been in a cultivated field, but that had never been seen before—had never interfered with plowing, for instance. He is earnest and unjarred when he writes that this stone weighs 200 pounds. My own notion, founded upon my own experience in seeing, is that a block of stone weighing 500 pounds might be in one's parlor twenty years, virtually unseen—but not in an old cultivated field, where it interfered with plowing—not anywhere—if it interfered.

Dr. Hahn said that he had found fossils in meteorites. There is a description of the corals, sponges, shells, and crinoids, all of them microscopic, which he photographed, in Popular Science, 20-83.

Dr. Hahn was a well-known scientist. He was better known after that.

Anybody may theorize upon other worlds and conditions upon them that are similar to our own conditions: if his notions be presented undisguisedly as fiction, or only as an "interesting hypothesis," he'll stir up no prude rages.

But Dr. Hahn said definitely that he had found fossils in specified meteorites: also he published photographs of them. His book is in the New York Public Library. In the reproductions every feature of some of the little shells is plainly marked. If they're not shells, neither are things under an oyster-counter. The striations are very plain: one sees even the hinges where bivalves are joined.

Prof. Lawrence Smith (Knowledge, 1-258):

"Dr. Hahn is a kind of half-insane man, whose imagination has run away with him."

Conservation of Continuity.

Then Dr. Weinland examined Dr. Hahn's specimens. He gave his opinion that they are fossils and that they are not crystals of enstatite, as asserted by Prof. Smith, who had never seen them. The damnation of denial and the damnation of disregard: After the publication of Dr. Weinland's findings—silence.

BOOK I

GOD PROVIDED--MAN DIVIDED

CHAPTER 1

THE GREAT INFLUX

Space visitors put an intensification of the Cosmic program into effect in the late 1800's. The 1880's and 1890's saw the program manifest itself in strange phenomena and many books; new inventions and theories were suddenly put before the public. The Great Plan for the planet Earth moves along on levels of rises and plateaus. We are at present on a rising level. The 1890's experienced a rise, and the following fifty years was a plateau of leveling off time. The movement began before the nineteenth century, of course, but in a small way. Emanuel Swedenborg, scientist and mystic, brought great new truths to the spiritually hungry world in the 1700's . . . and there were other men, like Wesley and before him Spinoza; however the great mystic, Father Jakob Lorber, was born in 1800; Nikola Tesla, inventor, was born in 1857; Steinmetz, electrical wizard, was born in 1865; Charles Hay Fort, writer and researcher, was born in 1874; Charles Fillmore of Unity, was born in 1854; H. P. Blavatsky brought the great knowledge of Theosophy to the world in the 1800's; H. W. Percival gave the world his knowledge, and later,

p. 12

[paragraph continues] Thinking And Destiny; Dr. John B. Newbrough, in 1882, released his monumental work, Oahspe; Camille Flammarion, great French astronomer, was born in 1842; and among many others, P. D. Ouspensky, Lecomte du Nouy, etc.

Thus, in the last half of the nineteenth century, Universal Truth made a valiant attempt to penetrate the mind of Man before the Great Age of Materialism set in with the advent of the colossal Machine Age. Men like Brown Landone, and Flournoy, who wrote From India To The Planet Mars, contributed greatly to this expanding program under the influence of space intelligences. Even John Jacob Astor got in the plan and wrote about the coining electrically governed world and interplanetary travel in 1897.

Besides a Great Influx of Universal Truth coming to the minds of Man, there was a definite pro-grain instituted on the physical plane and on the surface of Earth, itself. Space visitors were actually deposited and left on our world to mix, mate, and marry with us. The new ideas and theories first came out in book form, and this was the prelude to the appearance of spacecraft in the skies of Earth. In our present century, first came the science-fiction tales of space travel, then came the actual space visitation.

In Paris, France, in 1892, Flammarion said: "We dare to hope that the day will come when scientific methods yet unknown to us will give us direct evidence of the existence of the inhabitants of other

p. 13

worlds, and at the same time, also, will put us in communication with our brothers in space. What marvels does not the science of the future reserve for our successors, and who would dare to say that Martian humanity and terrestrial (Earth) humanity will not some day enter into communication with each other?" Then in 1896, Flammarion wrote Uranie, and in 1897 things really began to happen. Here's the report as taken directly from the old records:

Chicago Record, Friday, April 2, 1897: "See Great Airship! Kansas City, Missouri people excited . . . mystical black object casting before it red light startled whole city for the last two weeks! At last descended . . . ten-thousand people swear they have no hallucinations! Scoffers and disbelievers claim the people have been seeing the planet Venus or the Evening Star, even though according to the almanac this planet should have set below the horizon at least an hour before! Object appeared very swiftly, then appeared to stop and hover over the city for ten minutes at a time, then after flashing its green-blue and white lights, shot upwards into space . . . light gradually twinkling away and looking like a bright star. Time: 8:15 p. m.

"Everest, Kansas has sighted a strange airship, Competent reporters state that this must be the air-ship that was built in Oakland, California and which broke away at launching time . . . this giant air-ship hovered one half hour at a time and descended at regular intervals very close to the Earth. A giant

p. 14

searchlight flooded the whole city with light from this aerial monster which with the velocity of an eagle darted up and away. Power source must have been attached to the light for it dimmed as the ship went up and away. On observer states that there seemed to be a basket or car beneath a great dark object thought to be a gas bag overhead . . . car was shaped like a canoe and had four wings, two on each side, fore and aft . . . light was greenish or blue against the light of a locomotive in the rail yard that was yellowish. Colored lights seemed to be all around the car."

This unusual craft showed up later in Michigan, but before quoting from the record, let's analyze the above report. First of all, the authorities passed off the entire incident by calling the spacecraft the planet Venus. That same thing has happened in our present Saucer saga. They called the object Captain Mantell was chasing Venus, when it couldn't possibly have been that planet. This craft over Kansas City flashed blue-green lights and this color combination is now predominant in Saucer sightings of to-day. The report goes on to state that the power source must have been attached to the light for it dimmed as the ship went up and away. It is known today that the speed of Saucers has a great deal to do with the color changes.

Chicago Record, April 3, 1897: "Flying Machine Now in Michigan! People of Galesburg saw a brilliant white light approach from the SW . . . object appeared large and black with a crackling, sharp

p. 15

sound. It hovered close to the Earth. Reporters state that they heard human voices from aloft . . . from the airship! When the ship went off, it seemed to be tipped with flame. (Local comment was that the airship had caught fire!) Time: 10.00 p. m."

Chicago Record, April 6, 1897: "Airship Now Into Illinois! Seen first at 8:00 p. m. in NW . . . . large red light. Suggestions of balloon are refuted because airship flew at tremendous speed into a high wind."

Chicago Record, April 7, 1897: "Airship seen many times last few weeks. Large numbers of people first hand witnesses. One time, a motorman of a trolley actually stopped his vehicle so he and passengers could look at the wonderful sight . . . just ahead of his trolley, the ship seemed about six-hundred feet up and about one-hundred feet long. The motorman, Mr. Newville, says it was ellipsoid with large projections fore and aft. There was a bright headlight in front and a red light in the rear."

From Hastings, Nebraska, came the report that the "airship" had been seen in Grand Island, Oxford, York and Kearney. Scoffers claimed these people had seen Venus, yet all the reporters were people of substance and not given to reporting spurious stories. This all happened in 1897, but we could date it 1956 and it would be right up to date. To-day, officialdom tries to explain much of it away as "natural" phenomena. Airplanes hadn't been invented in 1897 so they explained it away as balloons or Venus . . . today they say it's balloons, Venus, or

p. 16

airplanes . . . two-thousand years ago they might have called it "Apollo", or "chariots of fire", or "wheels within wheels".

Chicago Record, April 9, 1897: "Airship Seen In Iowa! Between West Liberty and Cedar Rapids appeared a bright light . . . giant airship . . . steel body. When leaving it appeared to be a large star weaving about and stars do not weave around the heavens!"

Chicago Record, April 10, 1897: "Airship Sighted Over Chicago And Evanston! People are tripping over themselves these days trying to get the best look at this green and white-lighted giant air-ship that has had the people all over the mid-west in a dither. Some people think the end of the world is near . . . Scientific minds have explained the whole thing away by now. The mystery will surely be cleared up in a few days. Mr. Carr, an aeronaut, has built an experimental balloon and is financed by a New York theatrical wig manufacturing company . . . Mr. Carr states his machine works marvelously, but cannot go against the wind . . . power is storage battery with propeller! Professor Hough of Northwestern University and head astronomer of the observatory stated when asked to train his telescope on the object: 'I am busy with sights on Jupiter and it would be too troublesome to change to look at this new thing.' The next day, Hough said: 'The thousands of people that are reporting this so-called strange airship are in reality looking at Alpha Orionis in the Constellation Orion!"

p. 17

This great scientist was too "busy with sights on Jupiter . . . it would be too troublesome . . ." Too troublesome to view for the first time a ship from another world! Although he refused to look at the object he seemed to know exactly what thousands of other people were seeing! How would he know since he only had the advantage of total ignorance?

Chicago Record, April 12, 1897: "Giant Airship Continues Over Chicago And Environs! People all over the city are in an uproar, and while everyone is viewing this grand sight on the south side, two amateur photographers who are news dealers in Rogers Park, looked out and saw the airship. Their photo shows the north Western Railway station and above it the purported airship! The photographers are Walter McCann and G. A. Overocker. This airship was seen to come in over the lake and traverse the whole city for several days."

The same report with an Omaha date line of April 11th says: "A gentleman brags he has mystery airship problem solved. He is an inventor and desires that he be allowed thirty-five acres to demonstrate his airship for the Trans-Mississippi Exposition. The gentleman didn't sign his name, but the reporter hopes the dilemma will be settled by his promises."

The same report again, with a Fort Dodge, Iowa date line of April 11th says: "Old German residents say that this very same type airship came over Germany thirty years before and the people were scared to death . . . said the devil's army was approaching

p. 18

and these were his vehicles!"

The same report again, with a Milwaukee, Wisconsin date line of April 11th says: "The residents of Milwaukee cannot be talked out of what they are seeing . . . thousands report the authenticity of a giant, beautiful airship with colored lights . . . the police records are full of the story for they have been called to answer what it is!"

Chicago Record, April 13, 1897: "Airship Called A Hoax! Several notable citizens are known to have caused airship scene . . . remains of paper and wood device in wreckage is in their yard. (No names given of the 'notables')."

The device mentioned was supposed to have been in the wreckage, but another column in the same paper said: "Airship seen in Rock Island, Illinois and Elkhart, Indiana!" How could it have been seen if it was wrecked?

Chicago Tribune, April 12, 1897: "One chap knows all about the airship. He says: 'These thousands of people didn't see a steel hull because this is the airship my friend has built in California and is on its way here to Chicago. Although, I must say, he sure has made good time for he isn't due until next week and the hull is paper, not steel. My friend, O. Chanute is on board too and I will introduce all of you to him when he arrives!' This chap is the Secretary of the Chicago Aironautical Society, Max L. Harmar."

The same strange sightings were made at Sisterville, Virginia. In 1897 and other years, there were

p. 19

amazing observances in Texas. The same old story, isn't it? Thousands of people in America observed this gigantic space ship . . . authorities called it Venus or Alpha Orionis, or a balloon. A balloon that couldn't go against the wind, yet the "airship" did just that. Notice where the report says: "Scientific minds have explained the whole thing away by now." That's exactly what they have been trying to do since 1947 in the present saga. Also, the idea that these are the "devil's" vehicles is thrown in as of the present. Not once a mention of their true nature!

The 1897 episode is very important: many space people were landed on Earth at that time. The Wright Brothers brought in the Air Age a few miles away at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina in the same era. (It is strange or is it?) that these brothers finally flew their controversial aircraft only a few years removed and a few short miles from the location where the giant, lighted "airship" of 1897 had made one of its final appearances?

After 1897 man progressed more in the coming half-century than he had in the previous ten-thousand years. Our progression is due, in part, to intellects coming here from outer space. Great men helped push men's progress ahead hundreds of years in terms of advancement. Where it had taken thousands of years to elapse between the discovery of the wheel and the bow, the greatest discoveries the world had ever seen followed each other in rapid succession. The telephone, electric lights, the radio,

p. 20

wireless, the automobile, the airplane, etc.

What actually took place in the 1800's was the first large public demonstration of spacecraft in the modern, industrial age. After the Industrial Revolution there had to be an influx of certain Universal truths in order to create a semblance between highly advanced technical skill and undeveloped spiritually. The space ships or "airships" of the nineteenth century were the physical manifestation of that Great Influx!

Communication with extraterrestrial intelligences also began at the same time. The father of wireless, Marconi, in 1921 believed he had intercepted messages from Mars or some point in outer space. The theory that the waves were produced by electrical disturbances was disproved by the regularity of the impulses.

Marconi conducted highly secret experiments before 1921 and knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that he was in direct contact with beings of other worlds! A woman in California writes: "During World War II was teaching in Scotland. In 1918, headquarters of the Y.W.C.A. in London wrote offering me the position of head of their branch office in Chelmsford near London. The main station of the Marconi World-Wide Wireless was also there. Many men from Britain died in World War I and it was my job to look out for many young girls away from home. I took room and board with a couple somewhat older than I. The husband was a very intelligent person and had a responsible position

p. 21

with the Marconi Wireless Company. One day, he asked me if I would like to go through the Marconi Station. I was delighted to go. During my tour through the laboratories I was startled and almost petrified when we arrived in front of a huge, ten-foot square, transparent case inside of which seemed to be a flaming mass . . . flames revolving like a wheel! I asked my friend what this was and he said that they had been receiving wireless messages somewhere outside of Earth! I asked him to be more specific. And he said: 'My dear girl, we have stations all over the Earth, but certain code is not coming from any of them! We are receiving signals from intelligent beings on other inhabited worlds!' My friend then told me that Marconi at that moment was in Australia conducting experiment and trying to discover more about this momentous happening. They believed the signals were coming from the planet Mars. I have never mentioned this experience before, and I believe Marconi kept his work secret because he knew what the world would say."

The lady who had the above experience lives in Santa Barbara, California and is a respectable citizen of that city.

Later in the 1920's and 1930's more strange messages were received throughout the world as radio was developed. And radiotelegraphic messages from Saucers are being received today! The first radio contact with space visitors was reported by our research group in Arizona in 1952, and now contact is being made in Ohio, Iowa, Canada, California,

p. 22

[paragraph continues] Detroit, Michigan, and other places. The contact is in both code and voice.

Space intelligences have said: "God provided--Man divided. Man has taken this true thing and added to it his own ring."

After the period of The Great Influx, science went a long way toward abolishing age-old theological dogma, but it went too far to the extreme and man became bathed in the new glories of the materialistic scientific world. Man on Earth had always de-lighted in dividing everything; there are continents, nations, states and commonwealths, counties and townships, cities and villages, wards and blocks, churches, cults, sects and isms, races and creeds, classes and clubs, societies and shrines, cathedrals and temples. But the Infinite Father is ONE!

Earth has been divided up so that instead of man being a brother to his fellowman, he has set up artificial lines to separate and segregate others different than himself. Man made boundaries, man made creeds and ideals, man made religious groups, man made doctrine and dogma, man made, man made. There is nothing wrong with religion, it's what man has done to and with it that's so pitiful. Science is the twin-sister of religion . . . truth cannot contradict truth, and there is no religion higher than Truth. The worship of the Creator and the study of His laws, causes and effects; of nature and the great powers waiting for discovery within her bosom . . . all these should be massed into ONE. Hence, science and religion are one, just as everything

p. 23

in the Omniverse is ONE!

When Van Tassel said: "We must present to science, the religion of science; and to religion, the science of religion," he gave the key for understanding between the two great fields of human endeavor.

To many people today, science is the modern savior or "messiah". They look to scientists and their discoveries for the answer to all of mankind's ills. Recently reports said that soon we could live forever through the latest discoveries in biological science. "What fools these mortals be", indeed! We already possess immortal life!

Thousands of spiritually hungry people have come to realize that the facts unearthed by science have not thus far been adequate to satisfy the needs of humanity, and many today are searching for something . . . orthodox theology has failed also to satisfy their deep longings, and orthodox science presents only cold, bare materialism to them. There are, of course, many scientists and theologians who are sincere, honest men, working tirelessly to aid men on this planet. But, at the same time, we must remember that all scientists are not "men of science", and all theologians are not "men of God".

Men are most reluctant to give up their secure, comfortable positions and pet theories. Desmond Leslie once said: "I'm convinced that the orthodox scientists of today are the counterpart of the orthodox theologians of the Middle Ages." Be that as it may, orthodoxy is the same thing wherever it is found, and it doesn't matter by what name you prefer

p. 24

to call it. Once in a great while a man comes along, or a woman, and although usually despised by their contemporaries, they manage somehow, by supreme effort, to haul all the rest of lagging humanity behind them and what we call worldly advancement or progression takes place.

In Of Flight And Life Charles A. Lindbergh says: "To me in youth science was more important than either man or God. I worshipped science. I was awed by its knowledge. Its advances had surpassed man's wildest dreams. In its learning seemed to lie the key to all mysteries of life.

"It took many years for me to discover that science, with all its brilliance, lights only a middle chapter of creation. I saw the science I worshipped, and the aircraft I loved, destroying the civilization I expected them to serve, and which I thought as permanent as the earth itself.

"Now I realize that to survive, one must look beyond the speed and power of aircraft, beyond the material strength of science. And, though God cannot be seen as tangibly as I had demanded as a child, His presence can be sensed in every sight and act and incident. Now I know that when man loses this sense, he misses the true quality of life, the beauty of earth, its seasons and its skies; the brotherhood of men; the joy of wife and children. He loses the infinite strength without which no people can survive, the element which war cannot defeat or peace corrupt.

"Now I understand that spiritual truth is more

p. 25

essential to a nation than the mortar in its cities' walls. For when the actions of a people are unguided by these truths, it is only a matter of time before the walls themselves collapse.

"The most urgent mission of our time is to understand these truths, and to apply them to our way of modern life. We must draw strength from the almost forgotten virtues of simplicity, humility, contemplation, prayer. It requires a dedication beyond science, beyond self, but the rewards are great and it is our only hope!"

All theology and science will not be done away with in the New Age. But under the incoming "Golden Dawn" Man will acquire a greater concept of Creation, free of ancient ritualism and the carried-over pagan ideas. Likewise, man will enjoy more radiant health due to the habit of right living and right thinking. Every man will be a scientist, even as space visitors are true scientists: utilizing the Forces of the Universe in the ever upward, spiraling climb toward divinity and the Father.

The Elder Brother, Jesus, said: "Know ye not that ye are Gods?" Man will wake up to this fact, and will leave the pupa of ignorance, superstition, dogma, orthodoxy, etc., to emerge as a "Son of God", claiming his rightful place in the divine scheme of things. Man is a co-creator with the Father, but he fails to recognize this great truth.

The great scientists of Columbus' time were no less great because they believed Columbus to be a

p. 26

fanatic for thinking the Earth was round. The mistakes of yesterday or today only point the way to the greater truth of tomorrow; with each new discovery we gain a greater comprehension of the whole.

Everything changes, but change itself. Let that change come; the Earth has been waiting a long, long time! Four thousand years ago, Job asked: "If a man die, shall he live again?" This question has been repeated in vain by every generation of men who have since inhabited the Earth. Now, space intelligences bring proof of life everlasting, and eternal progression.

In Conquest Of Fear, Basil King gives us a view of the future world when he says: "Taking Jesus as our standard we shall work out, I venture to think, to the following points of progress:

"The control of matter in furnishing ourselves with food and drink by means more direct than at present employed, as He turned water into wine and fed the multitudes with the loaves and fishes.

"The control of matter by putting away from ourselves, by methods more sure and less roundabout than those of today, sickness, blindness, infirmity and deformity.

"The control of matter by regulating our atmospheric conditions as He stilled the tempest.

"The control of matter by restoring to this phase of existence those who have passed out of it before their time, or who can ill be spared from it, as He 'raised' three young people from 'the dead' and Peter and Paul followed His example.

p. 27

"The control of matter in putting it off and on at will, as He in His death and resurrection.

"The control of matter in passing altogether out of it, as He in what we call His Ascension into Heaven.

Yes, it is true that "God Provided--Man Divided", but man on Earth must go back to the whole which the Creator made manifest unto His creation. Remember the words of Paul: "O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called." (I Timothy 6:20).

The Truth alone shall make man free, and as Bacon said: 'Truth is the daughter of time, not of authority."

The Calls of Enoch

THE FIRST KEY

1I reign over you 2Saith the God of Justice 3In power exalted above
1Ol Sonf Vorsag 2Goho Iad Balt 3Lonsh

1The Firmament of Wrath: 2In Whose Hands 3The Sun is as a sword
1Calz Vonpho 2Sobra Z-Ol 3Ror I Ta Nazps

1And the Moon 2As a through-thrusting fire: 3Who measureth
1Od Graa 2Ta Malprg 3Ds Hol-Q

1Your garments in the midst of my vestures 2And trussed you together
1Qaa Nothoa Zimz 2Od Commah

1As the palms of my hands: 2Whose seat 3I garnished with the fire
1Ta Nobloh Zien 2Soba Thil 3Gnonp Prge

1Of gathering: 2Who beautified 3Your garments with admiration:
1Aldi 2Ds Vrbs 3Obleh G Rsam

1To Whom I made a law 2To govern the Holy Ones: 3Who delivered you
1Casarm Ohorela 2Taba Pir 3Ds Zonrensg

1A rod 2With the Ark of Knowledge. 3Moreover Ye lifted up Your
1Cab 2Erm Iadnah 3Pilah Farzm

1Voices and sware 2Obedience and faith 3To Him 4That liveth
1Znrza 2Adna Gono 3Iadpil 4Ds Hom Od

1Triumpheth: 2Whose beginning is not 3Nor end cannot be: 4Which
1Toh 2Soba Ipam 3Lu Ipamis 4Ds

1Shineth as a flame in the midst of your palace 2And reigneth
1Loholo[1] Vep Zomd Poamal 2Od Bogpa

1Amongst you as the balance 2Of righteousness and truth. 3Move
1Aai Ta Piap 2Piamol Od Vaoan 3Zacare

1Therefore and show yourselves: 2Open the mysteries of
1(e) Ca Od Zamran 2Odo Cicle

1Creation. 2Be friendly unto me 3For I am 4The servant of the same
1Qaa 2Zorge 3Lap Zirdo 4Noco

1Your God, 2The true worshipper of 3The Highest.
1Mad 2Hoath 3Iaida.

[1. Or Sobolo]

TABLET OF UNION

E

X

A

R

P

H

C

O

M

A

N

A

N

T

A

B

I

T

O

M

 

THE SECOND KEY

1Can the Wings of the Winds 2Understand your voices of wonder
1Adgt Vpaah Zong 2Om Faaip Sald

1O You the Second of the First 2Whom the burning flames 3Have framed
1Vi-I-V L 2Sobam Ial-Prg 3I-Za-Zaz

1Within the depth of my jaws: 2Whom 3I have prepared as cups for a
1Pi-Adph 2Casarma 3Abramg Ta Talho

1Wedding 2Or as the flowers in their beauty 3For the Chamber of the
1Paracleda 2Q Ta Lorslq Turbs 3Ooge

1Righteous. 2Stronger are your feet 3Than the barren stone 4And
1Baltoh 2Givi Chis Lusd 3Orri 4Od

1Mightier 2Are your voices than the Manifold Winds. 3For ye a
1Micalp 2Chis Bia Ozongon 3Lap

1Become 2A building such as 3Is not save in the mind of
1Noan 2Trof Cors Ta 3Ge O Q Manin

1All-Powerful. 2Arise, 3Saith the First. 4Move, 5Therefore, 6Unto
1Ia-Idon 2Torzu 3Gohe L 4Zacar 5(E) Ca 6C

1Thy servants. 2Show yourselves 3In power and make me 4A strong seer
1Noqod 2Zamran 3Micalzo Od Ozam 4Vrelp

1Of things, for I am of Him 2That liveth forever.
1Lap Zir 2Io-Iad.

Rules Letters E. H. N. B. of Tablet of Union

THE THIRD KEY

1Behold 2Saith your God. 3I am a Circle 4On Whose Hands stand Twelve
1Micma 2Goho Mad 3Zir Comselha 4Zien Biah Os

1Kingdoms. 2Six are the Seats of Living Breath, 3The rest are as
1Londoh 2Norz Chis Othil Gigipah 3Vnd-L Chis ta

1Sharp Sickles 2Or the Horns of Death, 3Wherein the creatures of Earth
1Pu-Im 2Q Mospleh Teloch 3Qui-I-N Toltorg

1Are and are not 2Except Mine own Hands 3Which also sleep 4And shall rise.
1Chis I Chis-Ge 2In Ozien 3Ds T Brgdo 4Od Torzul.

1In the first I made you 2Stewards and placed 3You in seats Twelve of
1I Li E O1 2Balzarg Od Aala 3Thiln Os

1Government, 2Giving unto 3Every one of you 4Power successively 5Over
1Netaab 2Dluga Vonsarg 3Lonsa 4Cap-Mi Ali 5Vors

1Four Five and Six, 2The True Ages of Time: 3To the intent that from
1CLA 2Homil Cocasb 3Fafen

1The Highest Vessels 2And 3The comers of 4Your governments
1Izizop 2Od 3Miinoag 4De Gnetaab

1Ye might work My power: 2Pouring down 3The Fires of Life and Increase
1Vaun 2Na-Na-E-El 3Panpir 4Malpirg

1Continually upon the Earth. 2Thus ye are become 3The Skirts of
1Pild Caosg 2Noan 3Vnalah

1Justice and Truth. 2In the Name of the Same 3Your God 4Lift up, 5I say
1Balt Od Vaoan. 2Do-O-I-A p 3Mad 4Goholor 5Gohus

1Yourselves. 2Behold His mercies 3FIourish 4And His Name is become
1Amiran 2Micma Iehusoz 3Ca-Cacom 4Od Do-O-A-In Noar

1Mighty 2Amongst us, 3In Whom we say: 4Move, 5Descend and
1Mica-Olz 2A-Ai-Om 3Casarmg Gohia 4Zacar 5Vniglag Od

1Apply yourselves unto us, 2As unto the Partakers of 3The Secret Wisdom of
1Im-Va-Mar Pugo 2Plapli 3Ananael

1Your Creation.
1Qa-A-An.

EXARP, AIR.

THE FOURTH KEY

1I have set 2My feet in 3The South 4And have looked about me 5Saying:
1Othil 2Lusdi 3Babage 4Od Dorpha 5Gohol

1Are not 2The Thunders of Increase 3Numbered 4Thirty-three
1G-Chis-Ge 2Avavago 3Cormp 4P D

1Which reign 2In the Second Angle? 3Under Whom 4I have placed
1Ds Sonf 2Vi-Vi-Iv 3Casarmi 4Oali

1Nine Six Three Nine 2Whom. None 3Hath yet numbered but One:
1MAPM 2Sobam Ag 3Cormpo Crp L

1In Whom 2The Second Beginning of things 3Are and wax strong,
1Casarmg 2Cro-Od-Zi 3Chis Od Vgeg

1Which also successively 2Are the 3Numbers of Time 4And their powers
1Ds T Capimali 2Chis 3Capimaon 4Od Lonshin

1Are as the first 24 5 6. 3Arise 4Ye Sons of pleasure 5And visit the Earth:
1Chis Ta L-O 2CLA 3Torzu 4Nor-Quasahi 5Od F Caosga

1For I am the Lord 2Your God 3Which is 4And liveth for ever.
1Bagle Zire 2Mad 3Ds I 4Od Apila.

1In the Name of the Creator, 2Move and 3Show yourselves
1Do-O-A-Ip Qaal 2Zacar Od 3Zamran

1As pleasant deliverers 2That you may praise Him 3Amongst
1Obelisong 2Rest-El 3Aaf

1The Sons of Men.
1Nor-Molap.

HCOMA, Water

THE FIFTH KEY

1The Mighty Sounds 2Have entered 3Into the Third Angle 4And
1Sapah 2Zimii 3D U-I-V 4Od

1Are become 2As Olives 3In the Olive Mount 4Looking with gladness
1Noas 2Ta Qanis 3Adroch 4Dorphal

1Upon the Earth 2And 3Dwelling in 4The brightness of the Heavens
1Caosg 2Od 3Faonts 4Piripsol

1As continual comforters. 2Unto whom 3I fastened 4Pilllars of Gladness
1Ta Blior 2Casarm 3A-M-Ipzi 4Nazarth

119 2And gave them 3Vessels 4To water the Earth 5With all her creatures:
1AF 2Od Dlugar 3Zizop 4Zlida Caosgi 5Tol Torgi

1And 2They are the 3Brothers 4Of the first 5And the Second
1Od 2Z Chis 3E Siasch 4L 5Ta-Vi-U

1And the beginning of their own 2Seats 3Which are garnished with
1Od laod 2Thild 3Ds

1Continual Burning Lamps 26, 9, 6, 3, 6 3Whose numbers
1Hubar 2P E O A L 3Soba Cormfa

1Are as the First 2The Ends, 3And the Content 4Of Time
1Chis Ta La 2Vls 3Od Q- 4Cocasb

1Therefore come ye 2And obey your creation. 3Visit us 4In peace
1 (E) Ca Niis 2Od Darbs Qaas 3F 4Etharzi

1And comfort. 2Conclude us 3Receivers of 4Your Mysteries. 5For why?
1Od Bliora 2Ia-Ial 3Ed-Nas 4Cicles 5Bagle

1Our Lord and Master is the All One!
1Ge-Iad I L

NANTA, Earth.

THE SIXTH KEY

1The Spirits of 2The Fourth Angle 3Are Nine, 4Mighty in the Firmament
1Gah 2S Diu 3Chis Em 4Micalzo Pil-

1Of waters. 2Whom the First hath planted 3A Torment to the Wicked
1Zin 2Sobam El Harg 3Mir Babalon

1And 2A Garland to the Righteous: 3Giving unto them Fiery Darts
1Od 2Obloc Samvelg 3Dlugar Malprg

1To Vanne 2The Earth, 3And 47, 6, 9, 9 5Continual Workmen
1Ar 2Caosgi 3Od 4A C A M 5Canal

1Whose courses visit 2With comfort 3The Earth, 4And are in government
1Sobol Zar F 2BIiard 3Caosgi 4Od Chisa Netaab

1And continuance as 2The Second 3And the Third. 4Wherefore,
1Od Miam Ta 2Viv 3Od D 4Darsar

1Hearken unto my voice. 2I have talked of you 3And I move you
1Solpeth Bi-En 2B-Ri-Ta 3Od Zacam

1In power and presence: 2Whose 3Works 4Shall be a Song of Honour
1G-Macalza 2Sobol 3Ath 4Trian Lu-Ia He

1And the praise of your God. 2In your creation.
1Od Ecrin Mad 2Qaa-On.

BITOM, Fire.

THE SEVENTH KEY

1The East 2Is a House of Virgins 3Singing praises 4Amongst the Flames
1Raas 2I Salman Paradiz 3Oe-Crimi 4Aao Ial-

1Of First glory, 2Wherein 3The Lord hath opened His mouth 4And they are
1Pir-Gah 2Qui-In 3Enay Butmon 4Od I

1Become 28 3Living Dwellings 4In whom 5The Strength of Man
1Noas 2NI 3Paradial 4Casarmg 5Vgear

1Rejoiceth 2And 3They are apparelled with 4Ornaments of brightness
1Chirlan 2Od 3Zonac 4Luciftian

1Such as work 2Wonders on all Creatures. 3Whose Kingdoms 4And
1Cors Ta Vaul 2Zirn Tol Hami 3Sobol Ondoh 4Od

1Continuance 2Are as 3The Third 4And Fourth, 5Strong Towers 6And
1Miam 2Chis Ta 3D 4Od Es 5V-Ma-Dea 5Od

1Places of Comfort, 2The Seat of Mercy 3And Continuance.
1Pi-Bliar 2Othil Rit 3Od Miam

1O ye Servants of Mercy 2Move, 3Appear, 4Sing praises 5Unto the Creator!
1C-Noqol Rit 2Zacar 3Zamran 4Oe-Crimi 5Qaada.

1And be mighty 2Amongst us! 3For to 4This Remembrance
1Od O-Micaolz 2Aaiom 3Bagle 4Papnor

1Is given power, 2And our strength 3Waxeth strong 4In Our Comforter!
1I Dlugam Lonshi 2Od Vmplif 3V-Ge-Gi 4Bigliad

Water of AIR.

THE EIGHTH KEY

1The Mid-Day, 2The First, 3Is as the Third Heaven 4Made of Hyacinthine
1Bazm 2Elo 3I Ta Piripson 4Oln Nazavabh

1Pillars 226 3In whom the Elders 4Are become strong, 5Which I have
2OX 3Casarmg Vran 4Chis Vgeg 5Ds

1Prepared 2For My own Righteousness 3Saith the Lord, 4Whose long
1Abramg 2Baltoha 3Goho Iad 4Soba

1Continuance 2Shall be as Buckles 3To the Stooping Dragon 4And like
1Mian 2Trian Ta Lolcis 3Abai-Vovin 4Od

1Unto the Harvest of a Widow. 2How many 3Are there 4Which remain in
1Aziagiar Rior 2Irgil 3Chis Da 4Ds Pa-Aox

1The glory 2Of the Earth, 3Which are, 4And shall not see 5Death until
1Busd 2Caosgo 3Ds Chis 4Od Ip Uran 5Feloch Cacrg

1This House 2Fall, 3And the Dragon sink? 4Come away!
1Oi Salman 2Loncho 3Od Vovina Carbaf 4Niiso

1For the Thunders 2Have spoken! 3Come away! 4For the Crown of the
1Bagle Avavago 2Gohon 3Niiso 4Bagle Momao

1Temple 2And the Robe 3of Him 4That Is 5Was 6And Shall Be Crowned
1Siaion 2Od Mabza 3Iad 4O I 5As 6Momar

1Are Divided. 2Come! 3Appear unto 4The Terror of the Earth
1Poilp 2Niis 3Zamran 4Ciaofi 5Caosgo

1And unto our Comfort 2And 3Of such as are prepared.
1Od Bliors 2Od 3Corsi Ta Abramig.

Earth of AIR

THE NINTH KEY

1A Mighty 2Guard 3Of Fire with Two-edged Swords 4Flaming,
1Micaolz 2Bransg 3Prgel Napea 4Ialpor

1Which have 2Vials 3Eight 4Of Wrath For two times and a half,
1Ds Brin 2Efafafe 3P 4Vonpho 5Olani Od Obza

1Whose Wings are of 2Wormwood 3And of the Marrow 4Of Salt,
1Sobol Vpaah Chis 2Tatan 3Od Tranan 4Balie

1Have settled 2Their feet in the 3West 4And are measured
1Alar 2Lusda 3Soboln 4Od Chis Holq

1With their Ministers 29996. 3These gather up 4The moss of the Earth
1C Noqodi 2CIAL 3Vnal Aldon 4Mom Caosgo

1As the rich man 2Doth his treasure. 3Cursed 4Are they whose
1Ta Las Ollor 2Gnay Limlal 3Vnal Aldon 4Chis Sobca

1Iniquities they are. 2In their eyes are millstones 3Greater than the Earth,
1Madrid Z Chis 2Ooanoan Chis Aviny 3Drilpi Caosgin

1And from their mouths run seas of blood. 2Their heads 3Are covered
1Od Butmoni Parm Zumvi Cnila 2Dazis 3Ethamza

1With diamonds 2And upon their hands 3Are 4Marble Sleeves.
1Childao 2Od Mirc Ozol 3Chis 4Pidiai Collal.

1Happy is he on whom 2They frown not. 3For Why?
1Vicinina Sobam 2Vcim 3Bagle?

1The God of Righteousness 2Rejoiceth in them. 3Come away! 4And not
1Iad Baltoh 2Chirlan Par. 3Niiso 4Od Ip

1Your Vials 2For the time is 3Such as requireth comfort.
1Efafafe 2Bagle A Cocasb I 3Cors Ta Vnig Blior

Fire of AIR

THE TENTH KEY

1The Thunders of Judgement and Wrath. 2Are Numbered. 3And
1Coraxo 2Chis Cormp 3Od

1Are harboured 2the North in the likeness 3Of an Oak 4Whose branch,
1Blans 2Lucal Aziazor 3Paeb 4Sobol Ilonon

1Are 222 3Nests 4Of Lamentation 5And Weeping, 6Laid up for the Earth,
1Chis 2Op 3Virq 4Eophan 5Od Raclir 6Maasi Bagle Caosgi,

1Which burn night 2And day: 3And vomit out 4The Heads of Scorpions
IDs Ialpon Dosig 2Od Basgim, 3Od Oxex 4Dazis Siatris

1And live Sulphur, 2Mingled with Poison. 3These be 4The Thunders
1Od Salbrox, 2Cinxir Faboan 3Unal Chis 4Const

1That 25678 3Times 4(in ye 24th part) of a moment
1Ds 2DAOX 3Cocasg 4Ol Oanio Yorb

1With an hundred mighty earthquakes 2And a thousand times
1Vohim Gizyax 2Od Matb Cocasg

1As many surges 2Which rest not 3Neither 4Know any 5Echoing
1Plosi Molvi 2Ds Page Ip 3Larag 4Om Droln 5Matorb

1Time herein. 2One rock 3Bringeth forth a thousand 4Even
1Cocasb Emna 2L Patralx 3Yolci Matb 4Nomig

1The heart of man doth his thoughts. 2Woe! 3Woe! Woe! Woe!
1Monons Olora Gnay Angelard 2Ohio 3Ohio Ohio Ohio

1Woe! Woe! 2Yea Woe! 3Be to the Earth, 4For her iniquity 5Is, 6Was,
1Ohio Ohio 2Noib Ohio 3Caosgon 4Bagle Madrid 5I 6Zir

1And shall be great. 2Come away! 3But not your mighty sound
1Od Chiso Drilpa 2Niiso 3Crip Ip Nidali.

Air of WATER

THE ELEVENTH KEY

1The Mighty seat 2Groaned aloud 3And there were 4Five 5Thunders
1Oxiayal 2Holdo 3Od Zirom 4O 5Coraxo

1Which 2Flew 3Into the East, 4And the Eagle spake, 5And cried with a loud
1Ds 2Zildar 3Raasy 4Od Vabzir Camliax 5Od Bahal

1Voice: 2Come away! 3And they gathered themselves together and
2Niiso 3

1Became 2The House of Death, {sign of the cross} 3Of whom it is measured, 4And it is
2Salman Teloch 3Casarman Holq 4Od T I Ta

1They whose Number is 31. 2Come away! 3For I have prepared for you
1Z Soba Cormf I GA 2Niiso 3Bagle Abramg

1A place. 2Move therefore 3And show yourselves. 4Open the Mysteries
1Noncp 2Zacar (E) Ca 3Od Zamran 4Odo Cicle

1Of your creation! 2Be friendly unto me 3For I am the servant
1Qaa 2Zorge 3Lap Zirdo Noco

1The same your God, 2The true worshipper of the Highest.
1Mad 2Hoath Iaida.

Earth of WATER

THE TWELTH KEY

1O You that reign in the South 2And are 328 4The Lanterns of Sorrow,
1Nonci Ds Sonf Babage 2Od Chis 3OB 4Hubardo Tibibp

1Bind up your girdles 2And visit us! 3Bring down your Train 43663.
1Allar Atraah 2Od Ef 3Drix Fafen 4MIAN

1That the Lord may be magnified, 2Whose Name amongst you 3Is Wrath.
1Ar Enay Ovof 2Sobol Ooain 3I Vonph

1Move, 2I Say, 3And show yourselves. 4Open the Mysteries of your
1Zacar 2Gohus 3Od Zamran 4Odo Cicle

1Creation. 2Be friendly unto me! 3For I am the servant 4Of the same
1Qaa 2Zorge 3Lap Zirdo Noco

1Your God, 2The true worshipper of the Highest.
1Mad 2Hoath Iaida.

Fire of WATER

THE THIRTEENTH KEY

1O You Swords of 2The South 3Which have 442 5Eyes to stir up the Wrath
1Napeai 2Babage 3Ds Brin 4V X 5Ooaona Lring Vonph

1Of Sin: 2Making men drunken, 3Which are empty. 4Behold the Promise of
1Doalim 3Eolis Ollog Orsba 2Ds Chis Affa 4Micma Isro

1God and His power, 2Which is called amongst you a Bitter Sting!
1Mad Od Lonshi Tox[1] 2Ds I Vmd Aai Grosb

1Move 2And 3Show yourselves. 4Open the Mysteries of 5your Creation.
1Zacar 2Od 3Zamran 4Odo Cicle

1Be friendly unto me! 2For I am the servant of 3The same your God.
1Zorge 2Lap Zirdo Noco 3Mad

1The true worshipper 2Of the Highest.
1Hoath 2Iaida.

Air of EARTH.

[1. "Lonshi Tox" means "The power of Him."]

THE FOURTEENTH KEY

1O You Sons of Fury, 2The Children of the Just, 3Which sit upon 424
1Noromi Baghie 2Pashs Oiad 3Ds Trint Mirc 4OL

1Seats, 2Vexing all creatures 3Of the Earth 4With age, 5Which have under
1Thil 2Dods Tol Hami 3Caosgi 4Homin 5Dr Brin Oroc

You 11636. 2Behold the Voice of God! 3The Promise of Him Who is
1QUAR 2Micma Bialo Iad 3Isro Tox Ds I

1Called amongst you 2Fury or Extreme Justice. 3Move and show your-
1Vmd Aai 2Baltim 3Zacar Od Zamran

1selves. 2Open the Mysteries of 3your Creation. 4Be friendly unto me.
2Odo Cicle 3Qaa 4Zorge

1For I am 2The servant of the same your God, 3The true worshipper of
1Lap Zirdo 2Noco Mad 3Hoath

1The Highest.
1Iaida.

Water of EARTH.

THE FIFTEENTH KEY

1O Thou, 2The Governor of the First Flame, 3Under Whose Wings
1Ils 2Tabaan L Ial-Prt 3Casarman Vpaahi 4Chis

16739 2Which weave 3The Earth with dryness: 4Which knowest the
1DARG 2Ds Oado 3Caosgi Orscor 4Ds Omax

1Name Righteousness 2And the Seal of Honour! 3Move and show
1Baeouib 2Od Emetgis Iaiadix 3Zacar Od Zamra

1Yourselves! 2Open the Mysteries of your Creation. 3Be friendly unto me.
2Odo Cicle Qaa 3Zorge

1For I am 2The servant of the same your God, 3The true worshipper of
1Lap Zirdo 2Noco Mad 3Hoath

1The Highest.
1Iaida.

Fire of EARTH.

THE SIXTEENTH KEY

1O Thou of the Second Flame, 2The House of Justice, 3Who hast Thy
1Ils Viv Ialprt 2Salman Balt 3Ds A

1Beginning in Glory, 2And shall comfort the Just, 3Who walkest on
1Cro-Odzi Busd 2Od Bliorax Balit 3Ds Insi

1The Earth with Feet 28763, 3Which understand and separate creatures.
1Caosgi Lusdan 2EMOD 3Ds Om Od Tliob

1Open the Mysteries of 2Your Creation. 3Be friendly to Me! 4For
1Odo Cicle 2Qaa 3Zorge 4Lap

1I am the servant of 2The same your God: 3The true worshipper of
1Zirdo Noco 2Mad 3Hoath

1The Highest
1Iaida.

Air of FIRE.

THE SEVENTEENTH KEY

1O Thou Third Flame 2Whose Wings are Thorns 3To stir up vexation:
1Ils D Ialpirt 2Soba Vpaah Chis Nanba 3Zixlay Dodseh

1And Who hast 27336 3Living Lamps 4Going before Thee:
1Od Ds Brint 2TAXS 3Hubardo 4Tastax Ilsi

1Whose God is Wrath 2In Anger. 3Gird up Thy Loins 4And hearken.
1Soba Iad I Vonpho 2Vnph 3Aldon Dax Il 4Od Toatar.

1Move and show yourselves. 2Open the Mysteries of 3Your Creation.
1Zacar Od Zamran 2Odo Cicle 3Qaa

1Be friendly unto me. 2For I am 3The Servant of 4The same your God:
1Zorge 2Lap Zirdo 3Noco 4Mad

1The true worshipper of 2The Highest.
1Hoath 2Iaida.

Water of FIRE.

THE EIGHTEENTH KEY

1O Thou 2Mighty Light 3And Burning Flame of 4Comfort which openest
1Ils 2Micaolz Olprt 3Od Ialprt 4Bliors Ds Odo

1The Glory of God 2Unto the Centre of the Earth, 3In Whom the 46332
1Busdir Oiad 2Ovoars Caosgo 3Casarmg 4ERAN

1Secrets 2Of Truth have their abiding, 3Which is called 4In Thy Kingdom
1Laiad 2Brints Cafafam 3Ds I Vmd 4Aqlo Adohi

1Joy 2And not to be measured. 3Be Thou a Window of Comfort unto me.
1Moz 2Od Ma-Of-Fas 3Bolp Como Bliort Pambt

1Move and show yourselves. 2Open the Mysteries of 3Your Creation.
1Zacar Od Zamran 2Odo Cicle 3Qaa

1Be friendly unto me, 2For I am the servant of 3The same your God,
1Zorge 2Lap Zirdo Noco 3Mad

1The true worshipper of 2The Highest
1Hoath 2Iaida.

Earth of FIRE.

PERSONAL ENOCHIAN RITUALS




                                                       09-05-1987
                                                       Sun in Virgo
                                                       Moon in Aquarius



THE ENOCHIAN PENTAGRAM BANISHING RITUAL:


 1.  Stand facing North. Use either the Fire Wand, Air Dagger or thumb wand of
     the right hand, to trace the lineal figure of the Pentagram.

 2.  Touch the forehead and intone NONCF KHYS (NOH-NOO-KEE-FEH KAH-HEES; You
     are)

 3.  Touch the phallus and intone ADOHY (AH-DOH-HEE; Kingdom)

 4.  Touch the right shoulder and intone LONSA (LOH-NOO-SAH; Power)

 5.  Touch the left shoulder and intone BUSDYR (BOOS-DEE-RAY; Glory)

 6.  Touch the breast and intone YOYAD (EE-OH-EE-OH-DAH; Him that liveth
     forever)

 7.  Facing North, extend right hand with weapon or thumb wand, and trace a
     banishing Pentagram, then do the Sign of the Enterer and intone:

     YAYDON (EE-AH-EE-DOH-NOO, All-Powerful)

     come back into the Sign of Silence, then assume the God-Sign for Puella,
     right hand open across the breast and the left hand open covering the
     phallus, looking downward.
     Stab the Pentagram in the center and turn to the East.

 8.  Repeat, but intone:

     GE-YAD (GAY EE-AH-DAH, Our Lord and Master)

     come back into the Sign of Silence, then assume the God-Sign of Vir,
     hands closed with the thumbs pointed outward and placed on the temples
     with head tilted forward and down.
     Stab the Pentagram in the center and face South.

 9.  Repeat, but intone:

     ENAY (AY-NAH-EE, the Lord)

     come back into the Sign of Silence, then assume the God-Sign of Puer,
     right hand bent upward at the elbow left hand closed with thumb extended
     over the phallus.
     Stab the pentagram in the center and face West.

10.  Repeat, but intone:

     MONASKY (MOH-NAH-ESS-KEE, the Great Name)

     come back into the Sign of Silence, then assume the God-Sign of Mulier,
     arms outstretched with palms open and head arched back looking upward.
     Stab the Pentagram in the center and face North.

11.  Facing North in the center of the circle, assume the God-Sign of Osiris
     Slain, with arms outstretched, and intone:

     LUKAL Y YKZHHKAL (LOO-KAH-LAH EE EE-KEH-ZAH-HEH-KEH-AH-LAH)
     BABAGE Y EDLPRNAA (BAH-BAH-GAY EE EH-DAH-LAH-PAH-AHR-NAH-AH)
     RA-AS Y BATAYVAH (RAH AH-ESS EE BAH-AH-TAH-AH-EE-VAH-HEH)
     OD SOBOLN Y RAAGYSOL (OH-DAH SOH-BOH-LOH-NAH EE RAH-AH-GAH-EE-OH-ESS-LAH)
     MYKMA VNAL YALPOR OYVEAE (MEE-KAH-MAH  VAH-NAH-LAH  EE-AH-EL-POH-RAY
                               OH-EE-VAY-AH-AY)
     DS BYAH ASPS O NOKO (DAH-ESS  BEE-AH  AH-ESS-PAY  OH  NOH-KOH)

12.  Repeat 1 through 6.



                          --------------------------


                                                       09-16-1987
                                                       Sun in Virgo
                                                       Moon in Cancer



THE ENOCHIAN HEXAGRAM BANISHING RITUAL:


 1.  Stand facing North with feet together, left hand at your side and right
     arm extended and centered with Fire Wand, thumd wand or crystal* upright
     in front of you.

 2.  Face the East. Trace a banishing Air Hexagram (yellow), and intone:

     BUSD DE YAD (BOOS-DEH DAY EE-AH-DAH; The Glory of God)

     vibrating one syllable of this name with each angle of the Air Hexagram.
     Then assume the God-Sign of Osiris Slain and intone:

     MYKMAH A-YAL PRG DE VAOAN, AR QUASB TYBYBF, DOALYM OD TELOKH

     (MEE-KAH-MAH  AH-EE-AH-EL  PAY-RAY-GEE-DAY  VAY-OH-AH-NOO,  AH-RAY
     KOO-AH-ESS-BAY,  TEE-BEE-BAY-EFF  OH-DAH  TAY-LOH-KAH-HAY)

 3.  Face South. Trace a banishing Fire Hexagram (red), and repeat intonation,
     vibrating one syllable of the name for each angle of Fire Hexagram.
     Then assume the God-Sign of Mulier and intone:
     MIKMAH, VLS DE AGEOBOFAL Y DLUGA TOGLO PUGO A TALHO

     (MEE-KAH-MAH,  VAH-LAH-ESS  DAY  AH-GAY-OH-BAH-FAH-LAH  EE  DAH-LOO-GAH
     TOH-GEE-LOH  POO-GOH  AH  TAH-LEH-HOH)

 4.  Face West.Trace a banishing Water Hexagram (blue), repeating intonation,
     vibrating one syllable of the name for each angle of Water Hexagram.
     Then assume God-Sign of Osiris Risen.

 5.  Face the North. Trace the banishing Earth Hexagram (black), repeating the
     intonation. Then assume God-Sign of Vir.

 6.  Facing North in the center of the circle, assume the God-Sign of Osiris
     Slain, with arms outstretched, and intone;

     LUKAL Y YKZHHKAL (LOO-KAH-LAH EE EE-KEH-ZAH-HEH-KEH-AH-LAH)
     BABAGE Y EDLPRNAA (BAH-BAH-GAY EE EH-DAH-LAH-PAH-AHR-NAH-AH)
     RA-AS Y BATAYVAH (RAH AH-ESS EE BAH-AH-TAH-AH-EE-VAH-HEH)
     OD SOBOLN Y RAAGYSOL (OH-DAH SOH-BOH-LOH-NAH EE RAH-AH-GAH-EE-OH-ESS-LAH)
     MYKMA VNAL YALPOR OYVEAE (MEE-KAH-MAH  VAH-NAH-LAH  EE-AH-EL-POH-RAY
                               OH-EE-VAY-AH-AY)
     DS BYAH ASPS O NOKO (DAH-ESS  BEE-AH  AH-ESS-PAY  OH  NOH-KOH)



                          --------------------------


                                                       09-06-1987
                                                       Sun in Virgo
                                                       Moon in Pisces

THE ENOCHIAN RITUAL OPENING OF THE AIR TABLET:


 1.  Stand at Altar facing East, announce:

     PROKOL, PROKOL, PROFANY BALASTY OMPEDA

 2.  Perform the Enochian Pentagram Banishing Ritual and Hexagram Banishing
     Ritual. Using either dagger or thumb wand.

 3.  Go to East of Altar. Pick up Water Chalice. Sprinkle it three times in
     front of Air Tablet or Sigil, hold above head, and move slowly around the
     perimeter of room, deosil (clockwise), stopping before each Tablet to
     sprinkle them and intoning:

 4.  EMPEH ARSEL GAYOL (EM-PAY-HAY AR-SEL GAH-EE-OHL)
     VY PRYAZ OMAOAS DE DRYLPY ZUMBY E VYN NONK DS KHYS MYR DE AR KYKLE.
     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-AH-ESS  DAY  DAH-REE-LAH-PAH
     ZOAD-OO-MEE-BEE  AY  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS KAH-HEES  MEE-RAY
     DAY  AH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

 5.  Return to East. Replace Water Chalice and take Fire Wand. Then starting
     in the East, wave the wand three times in front of Air Tablet or Sigil,
     hold above head and circumambulate deosil, stopping before each Tablet or
     Sigil to wave the wand and intoning:
  6. OD MYKMA, NONKF URAN MALPRYG PYRYPSAX ANANAEL. SOLPETH PRYAZ BYA PRGEL.
     (OH-DAH  MEE-KAH-MAH, NOH-NOO-KEEF  OO-RAH-NOO  MAH-LAH-PEE-AR-GEE
     PEE-REE-PAY-SAHX  AH-NAH-NAH-EL. SOH-LAH-PAY-TAY-HAY  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD
     BEE-AH PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH)

 7.  Upon returning to the East, replace Fire Wand and take Air Dagger. Then
     using dagger, strike Air in front of Tablet three times. Make a circle,
     with Invoking Air Pentagram within it, with sign of Aquarius for Air
     Kerub in center, and intone:

 8.  ORO YBAH AOZPY (EH-ROH EE-BAH-HAY AH-OH-ZOAD-PEE)
     VY PRYAZ OMAOAS ZONKON E VYN NONK DS CHYS GYGYPAH DE AR KYKLE.
     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-AH-ESS  ZOAD-OH-NOO-GOH NOO  AY  VEE-NOO
     NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS KAH-HEES GEE-GEE-PAH-HAY  DAY  AH-RAY KEE-KAH-LAY)

 9.  While still facing  East, intone the Third Angelical Call:

10.  MYKMA GOHO MAD. ZYR KOMSELHA ZYEN BYAH OS LONDOH. NORZ KHYS OTHYL
     GYGYPAH,  VND-Y KHYS TA PV-YM Q MOSPLEH TELOKH QVY-Y-N TOLTORG KHYS Y
     KHYS-GE YN OZYEN DS T BRGDO OD TORZVL. Y LY E OL BALZARG OD AALA THYLN
     OS NETAAB, DLVGA VONSARG LONSA KOKASB: FAFEN YZYZOP OD MYYNOAG DE GNETAAB
     VAVN NA-NA-E-EL: PANPYR MALPRG PYLD KAOSG. NOAN VNALAH BALT OD VAOAN.
     SA DOOAYP MAD GOHVLOR GOHVS AMYRAM. MYKMA YEHVSOZ KAKAKOM OD DOOAYN NOAR
     MYKAOLZ AAYOM KASARMG GOHYA: ZAKAR, VNYGLAG OD YM-VA-MAR PVGO, PLAPLY
     ANANAEL QAAON. EXARP, ZONGON.

     (MEE-KAH-MAH  GOH-HOO  MAH-DAH.  ZOAD-EE-RAY  KOHM-SAY-LAY-HAY-AH
     ZOAD-EE-AY-NOO  BEE-AH  OH-ESS  LOH-NOO-DOH.  NOH-RAY-ZOAD  KAH-HEES
     OH-TAY-HEE-LAH  GEE-GEE-PAH-HAY,  VAH-NOO-DAH-LAH  KAH-HEES  TAH
     POO-EEM  KOH  MOH-ESS-PAY-LAY-HAY  TAY-LOH-KAH-HAY  KOO-EE-EE-NOO
     TOH-LAH-TOH RAY-GEE  KAH-HEES  EE  KAH-HEES-GEE  EE-NO  OH-ZOAD-EE-AY-NU
     DAH-ESS  TAY  BAH-RAY-GAH-DOH  OH-DAH  TOH-RAY-ZOAD-OO-LAH.  EE  LEE  AY
     OH-LAH  BAH-LAY-ZOAD-AR-GEE  OH-DAH  AH-AH-LAH  TAY-HEE-LAH-NOO  OH-ESS
     NAY-TAH-AH-BAY,  DAH-LOO-GAH  VOH-NOO-SAH-RAY-GEE  LOH-NOO-SAH
     KOH-KAH-SEE-BAY:  FAH-FAY-NOO  EE-ZOAD-EE-ZOAD-OH-PAY  OH-DAH
     MEE-EE-NOH-AH-GEE  DAY  GEE-NAY-TAH-AH-BAY  VAH-OO-NOO
     NAH-NAH-AY-AY-LAH:  PAH-NOO-PEE-RAY  MAH-LAH-PEE-AR-GEE  PEE-LAH-DAH
     KAH-OH-ESS-GEE.  NOH-AH-NOO  VAH-NAH-LAH  BAL-LAH-TAY  OH-DAH
     VAY-OH-AH-NOO.  SAH  DOH-OH-AH-EE-PAY  MAH-DAH  GOH-HOH-LOHR  GOH-HOOS
     AH-MEE-RAHM.  MEE-KAH-MAH  EE-AY-HOO-SOH-ZOAD  KAH-KAH-KOHM  OH-DAH
     DOH-OH-AH-EE-NOO  NOH-AH-RAY  MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  AH-AH-EE-OHM
     KAH-SAH-RAY-EM-GEE  GOH-HEE-AH:  ZOAD-AH-KAH-RAY,  VAH-NEE-GEE-LAH-GEE
     OH-DAH  EE-MEE-VAH-MAH-RAY  POO-GOH,  PAY-LAH-PAY-LEE  AH-NAH-NAH-EL
     KAH-AH-OH-NOO.  AYKS-SAH-PAY,  ZOAD-OH-NOO-GOH-NOO.

11.  Starting in the East circumambulate perimeter deosil three times and then
     do the Sign of the Enterer and intone:

12.  MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, GE-YAD.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, ENAY.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, YAYDON.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, MONASKY.
     ENAY DE VAOAN OD LANSO.

     (MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  GAY-EE-AH-DAH
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  AY-NAH-EE
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  EE-AH-DOH-NOO
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  MAH-NAH-ESS-KEE
     AY-NAH-EE DAY VAH-OH AH-NOO OH-DAH LOH-NOO-SAH)

13.  State the purpose for opening the AIR Tablet.

14.  Declare temple opened:

     E EMNA ODO OY SYSYON. (AY AY-MEE-NAH OH-DOH OH-EE SEE-SEE-OH-NOO.)

15.   After completing spiritual exercise, close the temple by widdershins
      circumambulation, doing the Sign of the Enterer when passing the Air
      Tablet. Then perform the Enochian Banishing Ritual of the Air Quadrant.

16.  Conclude with the following:

     GOHUS TORZU OD ZAKAR NONK GAH DS KHYS KOMMAH OD ZYMYY AAYOM. ALDON AMYRAM
     OD O ZORENSG K NA FAORGT SA ETHARZY.

     (GOH-HOOS  TOR-ZOAD-OO  OH-DAH  ZOAD-AH-KAH-RAY  NOH-NOO-KAH  GAH-HAY
     DAH-ESS  KAH-HEES  KOHM-MAH  OH-DAH  AH-AH-EE-OHM  AH-MEE-RAHM  OH-DAH
     ZOAD-ON-RAYNOO-ESS-GEE  KAH  NAH  FAH-OHR-GEE-TAY  SAH
     AY-TAY-HAH-RAY-ZOAD-EE.)

     E PYLAH EMETGYS OY SYSYON.
     (AY PEE-LAH AY-MAY-TAY-GEES OH-EE SEE-SEE-OH-NOO.)


                          --------------------------


                                                       09-24-1987
                                                       Sun in Libra
                                                       Moon in Libra

THE ENOCHIAN RITUAL OPENING OF THE FIRE TABLET:


 1.  Stand at Altar facing East, announce:

     PROKOL, PROKOL, PROFANY BALASTY OMPEDA

 2.  Perform the Enochian Pentagram Banishing Ritual and Hexagram Banishing
     Ritual. Using either dagger or thumb wand.

 3.  Go to East of Altar. Pick up Water Chalice. Sprinkle it three times in
     front of Air Tablet or Sigil, hold above head, and move slowly around the
     perimeter of room, deosil (clockwise), stopping before each Tablet to
     sprinkle them and intoning:

 4.  EMPEH ARSEL GAYOL (EM-PAY-HAY AR-SEL GAH-EE-OHL)
     VY PRYAZ OMAOAS DE DRYLPY ZUMBY E VYN NONK DS KHYS MYR DE AR KYKLE.
     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-AH-ESS  DAY  DAH-REE-LAH-PAH
     ZOAD-OO-MEE-BEE  AY  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS KAH-HEES  MEE-RAY
     DAY  AH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

 5.  Return to East. Replace Water Chalice and take Fire Wand. Then starting
     in the East, wave the wand three times in front of Air Tablet or Sigil,
     hold above head and circumambulate deosil, stopping before each Tablet or
     Sigil to wave the wand and intoning:

  6. OD MYKMA, NONKF URAN MALPRYG PYRYPSAX ANANAEL. SOLPETH PRYAZ BYA PRGEL.
     (OH-DAH  MEE-KAH-MAH, NOH-NOO-KEEF  OO-RAH-NOO  MAH-LAH-PEE-AR-GEE
     PEE-REE-PAY-SAHX  AH-NAH-NAH-EL. SOH-LAH-PAY-TAY-HAY  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD
     BEE-AH PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH)

 7.  Go to South. Then using wand, wave wand three times in front of Fire
     Tablet. Make a circle tracing Invoking  Pentagram of Fire within it, make
     sign of Leo as Fire Kerub in center, intoning:

 8.




                                                       09-17-1987
                                                       Sun in Virgo
                                                       Moon in Cancer


ENOCHIAN RITUAL CONSECRATION OF MAGICKAL INSTRUMENTS:


 1.  Stand at Altar facing East, announce:

     PROKOL, O PROKOL, PROFANY BALASTY OMPEDA

 2.  Perform the Enochian Pentagram Banishing Ritual an Hexagram Banishing
     Ritual, using either Fire Wand, Air Dagger or thumd wand.

 3.  Perform a Ritual Opening of the appropriate Enochian Tablet.

 4.  Then conduct the proper Invocation for the Magickal Instrument.
     (See Enochian Invocations A, B, C and D, that follow)

 5.   After completing the consecration, close the temple by widdershins
      circumambulation, doing the Sign of the Enterer when passing the
      appropriate Tablet. Then perform the Enochian Pentagram Banishing
      Ritual.

 6.  Conclude with the following:

     GOHUS TORZU OD ZAKAR NONK GAH DS KHYS COMMAH OD ZYMYY AAYOM. ALDON AMYRAM
     OD O ZORENSG K NA FAORGT SA ETHARZY.

     (GOH-HOOS  TOR-ZOAD-OO  OH-DAH  ZOAD-AH-KAH-RAY  NOH-NOO-KAH  GAH-HAY
     DAH-ESS  KAH-HEES  KOHM-MAH  OH-DAH  AH-AH-EE-OHM  AH-MEE-RAHM  OH-DAH
     ZOAD-ON-RAYNOO-ESS-GEE  KAH  NAH  FAH-OHR-GEE-TAY  SAH
     AY-TAY-HAH-RAY-ZOAD-EE.)

     E PYLAH EMETGYS OY SYSYON.
     (AY  PEE-LAH  AY-MAY-TAY-GEES  OH-EE  SEE-SEE-OH-NOO.)


                          --------------------------

 A.  ENOCHIAN FIRE WAND INVOCATION:


 1.  Go to South of Altar, take Fire Wand in right hand and face the Fire
     Tablet, then holding the wand in front of you, intone:

     EDLPRNAA, E VYN NONKYF ASPT POAMAL DE PRGEL:
     NYYS OD DLUGA LONSA DE SYBSY MYRK OY KAB.

     (EH-DAH-LAH-PAH-AHR-NAH-AH,  AY  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  AH-ESS-PAY-TAY
     POH-AH-MAH-LAH  DAY  PAY-RAY-GAT-LAH :
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  LOH-NOO-SAH  DAY  SEE-BAY-SEE
     MEE-AR-KAH  OH-HEE  KAH-BEH.)

 2.  Address the Seniors. Intone:

     AAETPYO, ADAEOET, ALNKVOD, AAPDOKE, ANODOYN, ARYNNAP:
     NYYS OD DLUGA KARS MYKAOLZ LONSA TA Y OROKH, PAYD MYRK OY KAB.

     (AH-AH-AY-TAH-PEE-OH,  AH-DAH-AY-OH-AY-TAY,  AH-LAH-NEH-KAH-VOH-DAH,
      AH-AH-PEH-DAH-OH-KEE,  AH-NAH-OH-DOH-EE-NAH,  AH-REE-NAH-NAH-AH-PEH :
     (NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  KAH-RESS  MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD
     LOH-NOO-SAH  TAH  EE  OH-ROH-KAH-HAY,  PAH-EE-DAH  MEE-AR-KAH
     OH-HEE  KAH-BEH.)

 3.  Hold the Fire Wand before the Fire Tablet and intone:

     OY KAB BYTOM ZYZOP.
     (OH-EE  KAH-BEH  BEE-TOH-MEH  ZOAD-EE-ZOAD-OH-PEH)

 4.  Return to format of the Consecration Ritual, step 5.


                          --------------------------


 B.  ENOCHIAN AIR DAGGER INVOCATION:


 1.  Go to east of Altar, take the Air Dagger in right hand and face the Air
     Tablet, then holding the dagger in front of you, intone:

     BATAYVAH, E VYN NONKYF ASPT POAMAL DE YADNAH:
     NYYS OD DLUGA LONSA DE SYBSY MYRK OY NAZPS.

     (BAH-AH-TAH-AH-EE-VAH-HEH,  EE  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  AH-ESS-PAY-TAY
     POH-AH-MAH-LAH  DAY  EE-AH-DAH-NAH-HAY:
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  LOH-NOO-SAH  DAY  SEE-BAY-SEE
     MEE-AR-KAH  OH-EE  NAH-ZOAD-PEH-SAH.

 2.  Address the Seniors. Intone:

     HABYORO, AAOZAYF, HTNORDA, AHAOZAPY, AVTOTAR, HYPOTGA:
     NYYS OD DLUGA KARS MYKAOLZ LONSA TA Y OROKH, PAYD MYRK OY NAZPS.

     (HEH-AH-BEE-OH-RAH-OH,  AH-AH-OH-ZOAD-AH-EE-FEH,  HEH-TEH-NAH-OH-RAH-DAH,
     AH-AH-OH-ZOAD-AH-PEE,  AH-VEH-TAH-OH-TAH-RAH,  HEE-PAH-OH-TEH-GAH-AH :
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  KAH-RESS  MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD
     LOH-NOO-SAH  TAH  EE  OH-ROH-KAH-HAY  PAH-EE-DAH  MEE-AR KAH
     OH-EE  NAH-ZOAD-PEH-SAH.

 3.  Hold the Air Dagger before the Air Tablet and intone:

    OY NAZPS Y TOL-TOH VAOAN
    (OH-EE  EE  TOH-EL-TOH-HEH  VAY-OH-AH-NOO)

 4.  Return to format of the Consecration Ritual, step 5.


                          --------------------------


 C.  ENOCHIAN WATER CUP INVOCATION:


 1.  Go to West of Altar, take Water Cup in right hand and face the Water
     Tablet, then holding the cup in front of you, intone:

     RAAGYOSL, E VYN NONKYF ASPT POAMAL DE ZYLD:
     NYYS OD DLUGA LONSA DE SYBSY MYRK OY TALHO.

     (RAH-AH-GAH-EE-OH-ESS-LAH,  EE  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  AH-ESS-PAY-TAY
     POH-AH-MAH-LAH  DAY  ZOAD-LEE-DAH:
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  LAH-NOO-SAH  DAY SEE-BAY-SEE
     MEE-AR-KAH  OH-EE  TAH-LAH-HOH)

 2.  Address the Seniors. Intone:

     LSRAHPM, SAYYNOV, LAVAXRP, SLGAYOL, SOAHZNT, LYGDYSA:
     NYYS OD DLUGA KARS MYKAOLZ LONSA TA Y OROKH PAYD MYRK OY TOLHO.

     (LAH-ESS-RAH-HEH-PEH-MAH, SAH-HEE-EE-NAH-OH-VEH, LEH-AH-VAH-EX-ROH-PAY,
     SAH-LAH-GEAH-EE-OH-LAH, SOH-AH-HAH-ZOAD-NEH-TAY, LAH-EE-GEH-DEE-SAH-AH:
     NEE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  KAH-REES  MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD
     LOH-NOO-SAH  TAH  EE  OH-ROH-KEH-HAY  PAH-EE-DAH  MEE-ROH-KAH
     OH-EE  TOH-LAH-HAY-OH)

 3.  Hold the cup before the Water Tablet and intone:

     OY TALHO Y PLOSY AFFA ZYZOP.
     (OH-EE  TAH-LAH-HAY-HO  EE  PAY-LOH-SEE  AH-EFF-FAH  ZOAD-EE-ZOAD-OH-PEH)

 4.  Return to format of the Consecration Ritual, step 5.


                          --------------------------


 D.  ENOCHIAN EARTH PENTACLE INVOCATION:


 1.  Go to North of Altar, take Pentacle in right hand and face the Earth
     Tablet, then holding the pentacle in front of you, intone:

     YKZHYKAL, E VYN NONCYF ASPT POAMAL DE KAOSG:
     NYYS OD DLUGA LONSA DE SYBSY MYRC OY KOMSELH.
     (EH-KEH-ZAH-HAH-KEH-AH-LAH,  AY  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  AH-ESS-PAY
     POH-AH-MAH-LAH  DAY  KAH-OH-ESS-GEE :
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  LAH-NOO-SAH  DAY  SEE-BAY-SEE
     MEE-AR-KAH  OH-EE  KOH-MAH-SAY-LAH-HAY.

 2.  Address the Seniors. Intone:

     LAYDROM, AKZYNOR, LZYNOPO, ALHKTGA, AHMLLKV, LYLANSA:
     NYYS OD DLUGA KARS MYKAOLZ LONSA TA I OROKH PAID MYRK OY KOMSELH.

     (LAH-AH-EE-DAH-ROH-MAH,  AH-KEH-ZOAD-EE-NOH-RAY,  LAH-ZOAD-EE-NAH-OH-POH
     AL-HEH-KAH-TAY-GAY-AH,  AH-MAH-LAH-LAH-KAH-VAH,  LAH-EE-LAH-AH-NOO-SAH :
     NEE-EE-ESS  OH-DAY  DAH-LOO-GAH  KAH-RESS  MEE-KAH-EL-OH-ZOAD
     LOH-NOO-SAH  TAH  EE  OH-ROH-KAH-PAY  PAH-EE-DAY  MEE-AR-KAH
     OH-EE  KOH-MAH-SAY-LAH-HAY)

 3.  Hold pentacle before the Earth Tablet and intone:

     OI KOMSELH Y OVOARS DE NANA-E-EL.
     (OH-EE  KOH-MAH-SAY-AH-LAH  EE  OH-VOH-AR-ESS  DAY  NAH-NAH-AY-AY-LAH)

 4.  Return to format of the Consecration Ritual, step 5.


                          --------------------------


                                                       09-19-1987
                                                       Sun in Virgo
                                                       Moon in Leo


THE ENOCHIAN RITUAL OF OPENING BY WATCHTOWER:


 1.  Stand at Altar, facing East, announce:

     PROKUL, PROKUL, ESTE PROFANY

 2.  Perform the Enochian Pentagram Banishing Ritual, using either the Air
     Dagger or thumb wand.

 3.  Perform the Enochian Hexagram Banishing Ritual, using unicusal hexagram.

 4.  Go to South of Altar. Pick up Fire Wand. Wave it three times in front of
     Tablet or Sigil, hold above head, and move slowly around the perimeter of
     room, deosil (clockwise) intoning:

 5.  OD MYKMA, NONKF URAN MALPRYG PYRYPSAX ANANAEL. SOLPETH PRYAZ BYA PRGEL.

     (OH-DAH  MEE-KAH-MAH,  NOH-NOO-KEEF  OO-RAH-NOO  MAH-LAH-PEE-AR-GEE
     PEE-REE-PAY-SAH-EX  AH-NAH-NAH-EL.  SOH-LAH-PAY-TAY-HAY  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD
     BEE-AH  PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH)

 6.  On reaching South, shake fire symbol three times before the Tablet or
     Sigil, then make a large circle, tracing Invoking Pentagram of Fire
     within it, then sign of Leo as Fire Kerub in center, intoning:
 7.  OYP TEAA PEDOKE (OH-EE-PAY  TAY-AH-AH  PAY-DOH-KAY)
     VY PRYAZ OMOAS DE HUBAR, E VYN NONK DS KHYS DE YALPOR KIKLE.

     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OH-MOH-AH-ESS  DAY  HOO-BAH-RAY, AY  VEE-NOO
     NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS  KAH-HEES  DAY  EE-AH-EL-POH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

 8.  Replace fire symbol. Go to West, pick up Water Cup, sprinkle a few drops
     in front of Tablet or Sigil, and circumambulate clockwise saying:

 9.  AR DE I LO TABA AR DS VAUL PRGEL, Y VNYG ZYLDA DE AR DRYLPY ZUMBY.
     (AH-RAY DAH-ESS  LOH  TAH-BAS  AH-RAY  DAH-ESS  VAH-OO-LAH
     PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH,  EE  VAH-NEE-GEE  ZOAD-LEE-DAH  DAY  AH-RAY
     DAH-REE-LAH-PAH  ZOAD-OO-MEE-BEE)

10.  On returning to the West, sprinkle Water three times before Tablet or
     Sigil, and with cup make circle, with the Invoking Pentagram of Water
     within it, then the sign of the Eagle as Water Kerub in center, intoning:

11.  EMPEH ARSEL GAYOL (EM-PAY-HAY AR-SEL GAH-EE-OHL)
     VY PRYAZ OMAOAS DE DRYLPY ZUMBY E VYN NONK DS KHYS MYR DE AR KIKLE.

     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MOH-AH-ESS  DAY  DAH-REE-LAH-PAH
     ZOAD-OO-MEE-BEE  AY  VEE-NOO  NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS KAH-ESS  MEE-RAY
     DAY  AH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

12.  Replace cup. Walk clockwise to East of Altar, take Air dagger and strike
     three times before Tablet, then circumambulate, intoning:

13.  KARS PRGEL Y MOLVY DE MYAM TA GYGYPAH. NONYG PRGEL YPAM OD YPAMIS, TA AR
     AZYAZOR DE BYA. NONYG TA MALPRG DE OLPYRT, MATORB SO MYKAOLZ MYKALZO.

     (KAH-REES  PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH  EE  MOH-LAH-VEE  DAY  MEE-AH-MEE  TAH
     GEE-GEE-PAH-HAY.  NOH-NEE-GEE  PAY-RAY-GAY-LAH  EE-PAH-ME  OH-DAY
     EE-PAH-MEE-SAH  TAH  AH-RAY  AH-ZOAD-EE-AH-ZOAD-OH-RAY  DAY  BEE-AH.
     NOH-NEE-GEE  TAH  MAL-LAH-PEE-AR-GEE  DAY  OH-LAH-PEE-RAY-TAY,
     MAH-TAH-AR-BAY  SOH  MEE-KAH-EL-OH-ZOAD  DAY  MEE-KAH-EL-ZOAD-OH.

14.  On returning to East, strike Air three times before Tablet with dagger,
     then make a circle with Invoking Pentagram of Air within it, then the
     sign of Aquarius for Air Kerubim in the center, intoning:

15.  ORO YBAH AOZPY (EH-ROH EE-BAH-HAY AH-OH-ZOAD-PEE)
     VY PRYAZ OMAOAS DE ZONGON E VYN NONK DS KHYS GYGYPAH DE AR KYKLE.

     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-AH-ESS  ZOAD-OH-NOO-GOH NOO  AY  VEE-NOO
     NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS KAH-HEES GEE-GEE-PAH-HAY  DAY  AH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

16.  Replace dagger. Walk clockwise to North of Altar, take Pentacle, sprinkle
     salt three times before Earth Tablet, then circumambulate, intoning:

17.  DOBYX YP ORS K KAOSG. SO AR ZYXLAY ADPHAHT AZYAZOR OD PAYD GOHOL AR
     YADNAH DE FABOAN.

     (DOH-BEE-EX  EE-PAY  OH-RAY-ESS  KAH  KAH-OH-ESS-GEE.  SOH  AH-RAY
     ZOAD-EX-LAH-EE  AH-DAH-PEH-HAH-TAY  AH-ZOAD-EE-AH-ZOAD-OH-RAY OH-DAH
     PAH-EE-DAH  GOH-HOH-EL  AH-RAY  EE-AH-DAH-NAH-HAY  DAY  FAH-BOH-AH-NOO)
18.  On returning to North, shake instrument before Tablet three times. Then
     make Circle with Invoking Pentagram of Earth within it, then the sign of
     Taurus for the Earth Kerubim in the center, intoning:

19.  EMOR DYAL HECTEGA (EE-MOR  DEE-AH-LAH  HEC-TAY-GAH)
     VY PRYAZ OMOAS DE CAOSG Y VYN NONK DS KHYS BAYLE DE AR KYKLE.

     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-AH-ESS  DAY  KAH-OH-ESS-GEE  EE  VEE-NOO
     NOH-NOO-KEE  DAH-ESS  KAH-HEES  BAH-LEE-AY  DAY  AH-RAY  KEE-KAH-LAY)

20.  Replace pentacle. Walk around Altar to West and then face East. Use thumb
     wand to make a Circle with both the passive and active Invoking Pentagram
     of Spirit within it, and intone:

21.  EXARP, BITOM, NANTA, HKOMA
     (EX-AH-RAY-PAY,  BAY-EE-TOH-MAH,  NAH-AH-NAH-TAH,  HAH-KOH-MAH-AH)

     VY PRYAZ OMOAS DE AR EMETGYS DE PYR, E VYN NONK MYKALZO DE MONASKY.
     (VEE  PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  OO-MAH-ESS  DAY  AH-RAY  AY-MAY-TAY-GEE-ESS  DAY
     PEE-RAY, EE VEE-NOO NOH-NOO-KEE MEE-KAH-EL-ZOAD-OH DAY MOH-NAH-ESS KEY)

22.  Make the Portal Sign of the Rending of the Veil. Stretch hands before
     you, then separate them sharply as if parting a curtain, then intone:

23.  E VYN NONK, NOQUOY DE YAD YADON.
     (EE VEE-NOO NOH-NOO-KEE, NOH-KOO-OH-LAH DAY EE-AH-DAH EE-OH-EE-DOH-NOO)

24.  Go to Northeast and intone:

     TA AOYVEAE KHYS AR LUKYFTYAS DE KAOSG. NOALN O SYSYON PA DE AR LUKYFTYAS
     DE PRYAZ AOYVEAE DE GAH.

     (TAH  AH-OH-EE-VAY-AH-AY  KAH-HEES  AH-RAY  LOO-KOO-EE-FEH-TEE-AH-NOO DAY
     PAY-REE-AH-ZOAD  AH-OH-EE-VAY-AH-AY  DAY  GAH-HAY)

25.  Circumambulate three times deosil, beginning in the East. Making the Sign
     of the Enterer each time you pass East. Return to West of Altar and
     intone the Adoration, doing the Sign of the Enterer at end of third line,
     and the Sign of Silence after the fourth line:

     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, GE-YAD.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, ENAY.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, YAYDON.
     MYKAOLZ KHYS YLS, MONASKY.
     ENAY DE VAOAN OD LANSO.

     (MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  GAY-EE-AH-DAH
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  AY-NAH-EE
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  EE-AH-DOH-NOO
     MEE-KAH-OH-EL-ZOAD  KAH-HEES  EE-EL-SEE,  MAH-NAH-ESS-KEE
     AY-NAH-EE DAY VAH-OH AH-NOO OH-DAH LOH-NOO-SAH)

26.  State purpose for performing ceremony.

27.  Declare temple opened:

     E EMNA ODO OY SYSYON. (AY AY-MEE-NAH OH-DOH OH-EE SEE-SEE-OH-NOO.)
28.   After completing spiritual exercise, close the temple by widdershins
      circumambulation, doing the Sign of the Enterer when passing the Air
      Tablet. Then perform the Enochian Banishing Ritual of the Air Quadrant.

29.  Conclude with the following:

     GOHUS TORZU OD ZAKAR NONK GAH DS KHYS KOMMAH OD ZYMYY AAYOM. ALDON AMYRAM
     OD O ZORENSG K NA FAORGT SA ETHARZY.

     (GOH-HOOS  TOR-ZOAD-OO  OH-DAH  ZOAD-AH-KAH-RAY  NOH-NOO-KAH  GAH-HAY
     DAH-ESS  KAH-HEES  KOHM-MAH  OH-DAH  AH-AH-EE-OHM  AH-MEE-RAHM  OH-DAH
     ZOAD-ON-RAYNOO-ESS-GEE  KAH  NAH  FAH-OHR-GEE-TAY  SAH
     AY-TAY-HAH-RAY-ZOAD-EE.)

     E PYLAH EMETGYS OY SYSYON.
     (AY PEE-LAH AY-MAY-TAY-GEES OH-EE SEE-SEE-OH-NOO.)


                         ---------------------------
.

THE PARADOXES OF THE HIGHEST SCIENCE

PARADOX I.--RELIGION IS MAGIC SANCTIONED BY AUTHORITY

MAGIC is the divinity of man conquered by science in union with faith; the true Magi are Men-Gods, in virtue of their intimate union with the divine principle. They are without fear and without desires; they are dominated by no falsehood; they share no error; they love without illusion and suffer without impatience, for they leave all to happen as it may, and repose in the quietude of the eternal thought. They lean upon religion, but religion does not weigh on them; religion is the Sphynx which obeys, but never devours them. They know what religion is, and they feel that it is necessary and eternal.

For debased souls religion is a yoke imposed, through self-interest, by the poltrooneries of fear and the follies of hope. For exalted souls religion is a force, springing from an intensified reliance in the love of humanity.

Religion is the collective poesy of great souls. Her fictions are more true than Truth itself; vaster

p. 2

than Infinity; more lasting than Eternity; in other words, they are essentially paradoxical.

They are the dream of the Infinite in the Unknown, of the Possible in the Impossible, of the Definite in the Indefinable, of Progress in the Immutable, of Absolute Being in the Non-existent.

They are the ultimate rationale of the Absurdity, which affirms itself, to deny doubt; they are the science of foolishness, the embrace of Folly and Knowledge. They are the cries of the eagle mounting above the clouds, the roar of the lion of the Apocalypse, that takes to itself wings and flies away; the bellowing of the bull beneath the sacrificial knife, and the never ending moan of mankind before the portals of the tomb.

For man, God is, and can only be, the ideal of man. In himself, he is the unknown, but in his revelation, at once divine and human, he is paradoxical man, the substantial without substance, the personal without definition, the immutable which transforms itself but has no form, the omnipotent ever struggling with the weakness of man, the serenity which thunders, the mercy which damns, the infinite goodness which tortures, the eternity which perishes; an infinite contradiction; the abyss of the human heart, serving as a world for an insatiable and terrifying idol; the cruelty of Nero, the policy of Tiberius drinking the blood of Jesus Christ, 1 a pope emperor, or an emperor antipope, the king of kings, the pontiff

p. 3

of pontiffs, the executioner of executioners, the physician of physicians, the liberator of the free, the inflexible master of slaves.

God is everywhere the ideal of those who ignorantly adore him; ferocious amongst savages, instinct with human passions amidst the Greeks, an Oriental despot for the Jews, jealous and merciless for the Ultramontanes as a celibate priest. One and all create a personage whom they endow in an infinite degree with their own characteristics and their own defects. 1

p. 4

Every man adores the God whom he has made for himself in his own image, or has allowed authorities, who have more or less an interest in his ignorance and weakness, to impose upon him. To adore in fear and trembling is almost to hate, though the fear disguises the hate; to adore fearlessly is to love.

True piety, which is the foundation of religion, is the exaltation of love, for love raised to a high pitch admits no longer the barriers of the possible; the impossible is its dream, and miracle, for it, reality. What would avail a religion that did not give us the infinite? What is Protestantism with its sacrament devoid of reality? 1 Sad as an extinguished taper or a dismantled church! How can the bread consecrated by the word represent Jesus Christ if it be not Jesus himself? What folly if the Christ be not divinity! A fine piece of worship, truly, to chew a mouthful of bread--alas for him who cannot feel the necessity for miracle here. One can love a human being to the death, to the forgetfulness of self, to

p. 5

madness, but can one immortalise him and make him divine, in faith in the making him divine, and immortalising oneself along with him? Can one incorporate him in oneself? Eat him altogether and feel that he lives more than ever, that he lives in us and outside of us, that he absorbs us in him, as we absorb him in us, in bringing us into communion with his vast being, and his eternal love? Alas! we feel that he is neither eternal nor vast! Why is he not God? Why, because God alone is God! and this is how the God comes to us, veiled under the appearance of bread! We see him, we touch him, we taste him, we eat him, and his eternity trembles within our mortal flesh. The blood which palpitates in our heart is his. Our bosom swells, it is he who breathes. Ah! these Protestants with their mouthful of bread and sip of wine, truly a fine Sacrament they have there!

Faith, the poet enamoured of the ideal, smiles at a ridiculous reality, but the fanatical believer grows exasperated. Reason says we should pity the Protestants. "No!" says infuriated Faith,---we must punish them! The God which I feel grow wrathful in me condemns them to hell; why should I grudge them to the burning pile?" Hold, miserable assassin! Dost thou then believe that God made himself man, that man might make himself a tiger? Thou believest thyself to have conceived with the infinite love, and 'behold thou art in labour with hate. Thou hast thought to devour Heaven and behold thou vomitest Hell! Thou hast eaten the flesh of Christ not as a Christian but as a cannibal. Sacrilegious communicant,

p. 6

hold thy peace and cleanse thy mouth, for thy lips are dripping with blood.

Doubtless religion must not be held responsible for the crimes which the policy of barbarous ages has committed in her name. Many heretics were at the same time the agents of conspiracies and seditions. The massacre of St. Bartholomew was a cruel ruse de guerre, the perfidy of which is perhaps explained by the necessity for rendering abortive a plot not less perfidious.

Thus, at any rate, did the Queen Mother and Charles IX endeavour to justify their action. This at least is certain that, at that period, both parties were capable of any, outrage. But what could ever justify the Inquisition? "God made himself man," it may be replied, and these grand words were understood by Pius V in a terrible, and by Vincent de Paul in an adorable, sense. Did not God, according to the Bible, repent himself of having made man? Cruel exaggeration of human iniquity I It is assumed to have been so gigantic as to make God waver in his purpose! Man divinifies himself even in his crimes, and dreams of opposition to the Eternal. The irreconcileable revolt of the damned and thenceforth the cruelly powerless hate of a God, unable any more to pardon.

Well, even this is sublime in its horror, and the Catholic dogma is admirable even to its most dreadful depths for those souls which realise its poetry without becoming victims of its seductions and its infatuations.

p. 7

God appears to repent himself of having made man, because man from time to time repents himself of having made a God. Divine fictions succeed each other like the ages. Jupiter dethrones Saturn, and the Jesus Christ of Popes reigns in the place of Jehovah of the Jews. The Jesus of St. Dominic is still none the less the son of the cruel God of Moses, but the ferocious beasts of Daniel and the Apocalypse must inevitably disappear to make room for the dove and the lamb. God will truly have made himself man, when he shall have caused men to become as good as a God ought to be. 1 The genius of man, in developing itself in the course of ages, unrolls the genealogy of the Gods. It is in the genius of man that an eternal Ancient of Days begets a son that must succeed to his father and in which proceeds, from father and son, the spirit of knowledge and intelligence which shall explain the mysteries of both. The Trinity, does not this issue from the very bowels of humanity? Does not man feel it to be eternal in three persons, the father, the mother and the child? In the human trinity, is not the son as ancient as the father? For the father also is a son! Is not the

p. 8

woman the immaculate conception of nature and love? And this her conception, is it not stainless? For the sin of love ends where maternity begins. There is a virginity in the sanctity of the mother, and since God has made himself man, that is to say, since God neither really lives for us, nor personifies himself, nor thinks, nor loves, nor speaks, save only in humanity, the ideal woman, the typical woman, the collective woman, is truly the mother of God. 1

p. 9

There is redemption, that is to say, solidarity amongst men; the good suffer for the bad, and the just pay the debts of the sinners. 1 Thus, all is true in the dogmas of religion when once we have the key to the enigma. Catholicism is the Sphynx of modern times. Place yourself under its talons, without guessing its riddle, and it devours you; guess its riddle without conquering it, or only half guess it, and you are doomed like Œdipus to misfortune and self-imposed blindness. An intelligent Catholic ought not to leave the church, he ought to remain in it 2; wise amidst the ignorant, free amidst slaves, to enlighten the former and liberate the latter, for I once more repeat that there is no true religion outside the pale of Catholicity. 3

The rationale of a religion is to be irrational! Its nature is to be supernatural. God is supersubstantial. Space and the universal substance are the Infinite, God is within it, for he is the knowledge and the power of the infinite. 4

p. 10

The infinite is the inevitable absurdity which imposes itself on science. God is the paradoxical explanation of the absurdity which imposes itself on faith.

Science and faith can and ought mutually to counterbalance each other and produce equilibrium; they can never amalgamate.

The eternal Father is Jewish; the good God is Christian; the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Pope, and the Devil are Catholic; but charity, which is Catholic and in a way pre-eminent, will suppress the Devil and convert the idolaters of the Pope.

Original sin is Jewish, pardon is Christian, the sacraments, Catholic.

Fanaticism is of Jewish birth, good sense is Christian, simplicity and intelligence are Catholic, but pretentious folly is Protestant.

Don Juan, Voltaire, the first Napoleon, Venillot, Polichinello, Pierrot and Harlequin are Catholics, but Mons. Prud’homme is Protestant and, what is worse, a Freemason.

Philosophy is Atheistic or Christian, poetry is Catholic, and egotistic and mercantile jejuneness are Protestant.

This is why France is Voltairean, but still Catholic, whereas the English, the Prussians and M.* * * are Protestants.

p. 11

"Yes, gentlemen of the Ecclesiastical Hierarchy," said the Catholic Galileo, "the Earth is fixed, if you desire it; it is the Sun which revolves. I will say more if you demand it, I will say that the earth is flat and the Heavens made of crystal. Would to God that your skulls were of the same material so as to allow a little light to penetrate to your respected brains. You are authority, and science is bound to bow; she can afford to bow when she meets you, for it is she who remains, you who pass away. Your successors will e’en be forced in their turn to bow to and live in peace with her."

Rabelais, not less learned and not less a good Catholic than Galileo, wrote the following in the prologue of his fourth book of Gargantua:

"If in my life, my writings, my speech, nay even in my thoughts, I detected the faintest glimmer of heresy, with my own hands should the dry wood be collected and the fire kindled to burn myself on the pile."

Do you see here Rabelais, the inquisitor, burning himself, Rabelais, accused of heresy?

This reminds one of God, causing God to die in order to appease God. It is inexplicable, as a mystery should be, but it is only the more essentially Catholic.

Nothing so excites the imagination as mystery, and the excited imagination electrifies and multiplies tenfold the will. The wise are called to govern the world, but it is the mad men who overturn and metamorphose it. This is why madness is considered by Eastern nations as something divine. Indeed to

p. 12

vulgar eyes the man of genius is a mad man. In truth, he has, perhaps, some grains of madness in him, for he almost always disregards common sense to obey the sublime sense. Moses dreams of a Promised Land and drags away into the desert a horde of herdsmen and slaves, who murmur, rebel, kill each other and die of hunger and fatigue during forty years. He will never reach Palestine; he will die, lost in the mountain, but his thought will have swept the heavens, and he will bequeath to the world a God, unique, and an universal code; from the shade of Moses, unburied, will issue the immeasurable glory of Jehovah.

He created a people and commenced a book; a people, bravely mean in its tenacity, at once superb and servile; a book, full of shadows and lights, of a grandeur and absurdity alike superhuman; this book and this people will withstand all force, all science, all political combinations, and all the criticisms of the nations and the revolving ages. From this book civilisation will derive its worship, from this people kings will borrow their treasures, and who now will dare to judge the man of the Red Sea and Mount Horeb? What rationalistic philosopher can think that he was wise? But who, capable of appreciating great things. could dare to call him foolish?

Shall we speak now of Jesus Christ? But here we should bow before him whom half the world adores. What great hierophant, what ancient oracle could ever have foreseen this God? What astrologer, or what Diviner could have conceived the idea of saying to

p. 13

the Emperor Tiberius: "At this moment a Jew of Galilee, proscribed by his own people, denied by his friends, and condemned by one of your Prefects, is dying in agony. After his death he will dethrone the Cæsars, and those who will claim to continue his inconceivable dynasty will reign in Rome in your place. All the Gods of the Empire and of the entire world will fall before his image; the instrument of his punishment will become the symbol of Salvation." What madness is Christianity if it be not superhuman! What an awful faith, that in Jesus Christ, if he be not God! 1 Can you conceive a mental disease, contagious enough to infect with delirium through a long series of centuries almost the whole of humanity? What a deluge of blood has that abolisher of bloody sacrifices caused to flow! What implacable hatreds, what vengeance, what wars, what tortures, what massacres, has not this promulgator of pardon excited? But Jesus was more than a man; he was an idea, nay more than an idea, a principle; I am a principle that speaks, said he, speaking of himself.

God has made himself man; thus is proclaimed upon earth the worship of humanity. "Emmanuel 

p. 14

[paragraph continues] God is in us," would say as they embraced each other the Brothers of the Rosy Cross, initiated in the mystery of the Man-God. 1 For truly the Son of Man is at the same time the only and multiple Son of God. 2 You are one with me, said the Master to his disciples, as my Father and I are one; he who hears you hears me, and he who sees me, sees my Father. Triumph and miracle! God is no longer unknown to men, because man knows man. He is no longer invisible when we see our neighbour. He is the benefactor who assists us, He is the poor man whom we assist, He is the sick who suffers, the physician who heals. He is the sufferer who weeps and the friend who consoles. And woman,--how Christianity elevates her! What an assumption is hers; the woman is the mother of God since God has made himself man! A virgin--we can love her with all our aspirations to infinity; a mother--but it is no longer sufficient to love her, we must adore her as we adore Grace and Providence. The law of pardon on her lips, she is peace and mercy, she is nature and life, she is obedience--free, and Liberty--self -submitting. She is all that we should love! Recite in her honour the Litanies of the Virgin-Mother; I salute you, Gate of Heaven, Temple of Ivory, Sanctuary of Gold, Mysterious Rose, Sacred

p. 15

[paragraph continues] Vase of Devotion, Honourable Vase, Admirable Vase, Pyxis of Love, Cup of Holy Desires, 1 Star of the Morning, Arch of the Alliance.

Ob! what cries of love do all those martyrs, self-condemned to eternal widowhood, raise, without comprehending them, to thee! Oh cruel, despairing sigh of all these Tantaluses thirsting for a draught that ever eludes them, and provoked to longings by fruits ever denied to their lips. Sublime dreamers! They renounce woman to gain heaven, as if heaven was something without woman, and as if woman was not the Queen of Heaven! "O trespass of Adam, happy trespass," sings the Church in her liturgy, "happy trespass which has deserved to have God himself as its redeemer! O sin of Adam, sin truly inevitable!" Thus escape in the sacred chants the innermost secrets of the Sanctuary, but those who repeat these mysterious words fail to catch their true sense, and their hearts, burning perhaps beneath the ashes, accuse themselves of a desire, as though it were a shame, and of a regret, as though it were an infidelity!

Religion then is the exaltation of the man and the assumption of the woman. Comprehension of religion is the emancipation of the spirit, and the

p. 16

[paragraph continues] Bible of the hierophants is the Bible of liberty. To believe without knowing is weakness; to believe, because one knows, is power.

Footnotes

2:1 The Western Ideal of Good.--E. O.

3:1 In a Review of Wilson's "Chapters on Evolution" in Knowledge for February 23rd, 1883, the following passage occurs showing how Western science is slowly drifting into the position occupied for thousands of years by the Occultists:--

"Quite early the tendency of the Theory of Evolution was seen to be towards the widest possible generality. It was recognised that man could not possibly be excluded from the Law of Evolution. Those who had believed in his nobler origin from the dust of the earth were pained. They objected to a doctrine according to which man, instead of having been made originally a little lower than the angels, had risen from only a little higher than the beasts of the fields--instead of being made in the likeness of God, must be regarded rather as having imagined God after his own likeness. It is true the new doctrine presented man as having risen--and likely therefore to rise still higher--while the old presented him as having fallen grievously, having, from being next door to an angel, and quite in the likeness of God (though, for a slight temptation, or none, held p. 4 out by an objectionable reptile, he so offended as to merit death--not, before, a part of the plan), become a wretched creature, I deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked'. So that, on the whole, the new teaching was a more cheerful one apart from religious hopes and fears,--which do not belong to our inquiry here."--Trans.

4:1 i.e., in which the bread and wine are not supposed to be really transmuted into Christ's flesh and blood, as is held by the Romish Church.--Trans.

7:1 That is to say when the Seventh Round men appear on the scene, then only shall there be a God for the sons of man.--E. O.

For the sons of men yes; that is to say cognisable and comprehensible by limited and conditioned intellects; but this is a different thing from the assertion that there is no God, though this latter is, no doubt, the view taken by E. O.--Trans.

8:1 Woman taken collectively is of course Mother of God--Humanity, but has Éliphas no other God? No, but he has an enemy--Rome. E. L. was an atheist and a poet. He was also a diplomatist; he seeks to win over and not to frighten away his public--E. O.

It is very questionable whether E. L. was an atheist; indeed it seems to me certain that he was not. His position was not that there was no God, (an assertion involving an assumption of omniscience), but simply that to the narrow and dim cognisance of man and even to that of far higher but still conditioned intelligences, God only manifests himself in Nature and Humanity. To say that the Infinite and Absolute is entirely outside the highest plane to which any limited and conditioned intellect can attain, and that hence we must content ourselves with dealing with the laws and manifestations of the conditioned Universe, which are more or less within our grasp or that of our perfected predecessors, is one thing; to assert that there is no power and intelligence outside the sphere of our possible cognisance, the source of these laws and manifestations, no God in fact, another, and one to which, to my mind, neither Éliphas Lévi, nor any other occultist of his school, would commit himself.--Trans.

9:1 But this is not the case in reality, though to a superficial observer it may often seem so. On the contrary, each and all inevitably pay to the last farthing their own debts (incurred in the current of previous lives) and these only, and pay them either in this or in future lives.--Trans.

9:2 And that is why E. L. left it--for the sake of a Paradox.--E. O.

9:3 A play upon words--Catholicity means with him Universality.--E. O.

9:4 Our doctrine: Space and Universal Swābhāvat--Matter: Force is within. Manifesting under this p. 10 Trinitarian form, a God, for the ignorant and the blind.--E. O.

13:1

"Now the Virgin returns, the golden age returns,
Now a new offspring is sent down from high Heaven,
O Chaste Lucina, favour the boy now being born,
The serpent will die."--Virgil's 4th Eclogue.

Virgil died September 22nd, 19 B.C. Was he a Prophet?--E. O.

14:1 "Man is God and Son of God, and there is no other God but man." (The secret pledge of the Rosicrucians).--E. O.

14:2 "Humanity--Son of Eternity."--E. O.

15:1 Compare these expressions taken from the litanies of the R. C. Church with like sexual flatteries addressed to Durga's idol (the Yoni) by Hindu devotees and the litanies of the Vallabacharyas to the God of Love.--E. O.

THE ISIAC TABLET

OF

CARDINAL BEMBO.

THIS curious relic of an age long past cannot fail to attract the attention of every earnest student of the Mysteries; its beauty of design, its careful execution, its obvious antiquity, its certain connection with that most incomprehensible scheme of religion—the Egyptian, all combine to fascinate the mind and stimulate the intellect in a search for the explanation of the purpose and meaning of this very elaborate pictorial work of Art.

Mysterious in its conception, of unknown origin, and of peculiar workmanship, this Tablet merits examination and research.

From the time of the learned Orientalist Kircher, and of the Classic Pignorius, many eminent archæologists and men of letters have devoted their energies to the elucidation of the hidden object of the designer, who must have been as erudite in all the arts and wisdom of the Egyptians, as he was skilful in execution. The well-known names of Montfaucon, Shuckford, Warburton, Keysler, Caylus, the Abbé Banier, the Abbé Pluché, Jablonski, Kenneth Mackenzie, Kenealy, Wilkinson, Eliphas Lévi, and Bonwick, all of whom have ventured some opinions, are sufficient proof of the worldwide interest that this Mensa Isiaca has aroused. Many years have now passed away since the Author made a labour of love of the drawing of the Tablet from which the Photogravure in this volume was taken; and his drawing being finished, his work seemed incomplete until he had supplied as its companion an explanatory treatise, however scanty and imperfect it may be deemed. He begs the indulgence of many a learned reader for its short-comings, and if he has apparently undervalued the opinions of the modern school of scientific Egyptology, it is only because of his conviction that the Tablet is essentially of an Esoteric character, and therefore insusceptible of ordinary methods of interpretation.

The Photogravure provided with this little volume, 10 ins. by 8ins., is of course much smaller than the original, which is approximately 50 ins. in length, and 30 ins. in breadth.

So far as can be ascertained, the Tablet has not been engraved nor printed in its entirety since 1719, when it was published in France by Montfaucon, and it has never been printed in England.

p. 2

The Isiac Tablet is of Bronze, the designs are inlaid upon its upper surface, and are composed partly of silver and partly of a dark coloured enamel, which has somewhat the tint of steel (niello work). Some portions of the silver ornamentation are missing, perhaps they have been removed by force for their intrinsic value, during the turbulent Middle Ages, although it is possible they may have become loosened and lost by accidental violence.

Around the whole Tablet is a border of small designs, or Limbus, as Kircher called it; at each corner is a many-petalled rose-like flower, these divide the Limbus into four portions; two vertical, a right and left, and superior and inferior portions. Within this border there are three principal horizontal divisions; the Upper and Lower Regions are of equal depth, the Central Region is deeper and is further subdivided.

The Upper Region presents Twelve principal erect human figures, and several smaller designs.

The Lower Region presents Twelve principal more or less human figures, of whom two, the second and eleventh, are standing in porticoes; and two others are seated, the fifth and the eighth; there are also interspersed among these, several smaller figures; as a boy; a dog-headed human figure, a cat, a bird, and other curious mystic designs.

The Central Region presents a Middle Grand Scene, extending over two-thirds of the whole length, consisting of a Throned Female under a Canopy, on each side of her is a triad. Each triad consists of a Seated figure, a human attendant and a winged human figure; there are also two birds in each lateral scene. At each extremity of this Grand Scene are placed designs somewhat similar to each other; each consists of an upper compartment, representing a Bull with two attendants, and a lower portion representing two female figures, one on each side of a Nameless object, whose formation can be better grasped by sight than from description.

Between the Upper and Lower Regions runs a narrow line of Hieroglyphics, this does not appear in the Photogravure, which from its necessarily reduced size, would have rendered them illegible; and within the Limbus runs all round a narrow design of wavy lines, with occasional small flowers, vases, phalli; and masks or faces interspersed.

The Letters which appear on the Photogravure do not belong to the Tablet; they are the reference marks adopted by Kircher in his scheme of explanation: most unfortunately the equally excellent plate given by Pignorius has a different set of reference letters. The only omission from the Photogravure is that of the series of very small designs on the plain border of the Central Canopy and its basement; these are all similar, and consist each one of a square, a circle within it, and within the circle four diameters dividing it into eight spaces.

It will not be necessary to describe each figure minutely, as the plate can be referred to, and comments on each figure will be found later on, especially in the detailed explanation of Kircher, and the shorter references to other authors: many curious and esoteric notes and suggestions of my own will be found scattered through this volume, and are specially assigned to the conclusion.

The Title, heading the Photogravure, does not belong to the Tablet; it is the superscription given by Kircher to his drawing of the Tablet, and reads as follows:—A true and genuine copy of the Isiac Tablet, or most ancient Brazen Tablet engraved with the Sacred letters of the Egyptians, for the first time produced from the Museum of Torquatus Bembo, in the year 1559, hence it is called Bembine; Æneas Vicus of Parma, published it and dedicated it to Ferdinand Cæsar the First. Athanasius Kircher, the Jesuit, devotes this as a monument more enduring than brass, having reduced it to a more convenient size, he is the interpreter of the same. Rome. 1654."

This most interesting and mysterious Tablet appears to have been treasured in one of the palaces in Rome, at the time when the Constable of Bourbon, in command of an army of the Emperor Charles V. of Germany, over-ran Italy and sacked the city, in the year 1527.

It then fell into the hands of a blacksmith, or iron worker, who sold it for a large sum of money to Cardinal Bembo. After his death it came into the possession of the Dukes of Mantua, in whose Treasure-house it figured as a relic of the past until 1630, when Mantua was plundered and burnt by an army under one of the generals of the Emperor Ferdinand II. It was then once more lost sight of, and indeed many important authors state that it was never seen again, but was probably destroyed by some of the ignorant soldiery, in removing from its surface the silver plates for the purpose of sale.

There is however at least one author who gives a correct account of the history of the Tablet after the siege of Mantua

p. 3

in 1630; all honour to Johann Georg Keysler, who published in 1740 his Travels through Germany, Italy, and other countries. In his account of the Palace in Turin, he says that when Mantua was plundered, the Tablet fell into the hands of Cardinal Pava, who made a present of it to the Duke of Savoy, by whom it was preserved. It was finally presented to the King of Sardinia, in whose Palace at Turin, in 1730 it was made a great favour to him to be allowed to see it, because it was very carefully guarded; he describes it as a pretty large copper plate, with silver imagery inlaid, amid a blue steel enamel. He states that Pignorius’ large plate is the real size, and that Montfaucon has in his copy inverted it. (This is an error, but Herwart de Hohemburg has done so).

The guide to Northern Italy by Murray states that the Tablet is now exhibited in Turin at the Museum of Egyptian Antiquities: he gives as the dimensions 4ft. 2ins. by 2ft. 5½ins. He states, without giving authorities, that it was first discovered on Mount Aventine in Rome at a spot where a Temple to Isis once stood. Having been again lost at the sack of Rome it was refound in 1709 at Turin, carried away to Paris in 1797 and returned to Italy at the peace; he suggests that it was made in the time of the Roman Emperor Hadrian.

Baedeker, also without quoting any authority, states that the Tablet was first found in 1549 during the Papacy of Paul III at the Villa Caffarélli at Rome.

Æneas de Vico, who published his splendid identical sized drawing of the Tablet in 1559 at Venice, gives the following as the title:—

"Vetustissimæ Tabulæ Æneæ Hieroglyphicis. Hoc est sacris Egyptiorum literis cælatæ Typus. Quem ex Torquati Bembi Musæo an. MDLIX Æneas Vicus Parmensis edidit, ac Imp. Cæs. Ferdinando dedicavit, nunc denuo publicæ utilitalis ergo e tenebris in lucem prodit."

This volume has no history of the Tablet, nor any attempt at description. A second edition appeared also at Venice in 1600, published by Jacques Franco. (Caylus prints a copy of this one.) John George Herwart de Hohemburg has also reproduced a drawing of the Tablet in his work "Thesaurus Hieroglyphicorum," 1610, and a diagram professing to explain it, in his "Admiranda Ethnicæ Theologiæ Mysteria," 1625. In this latter book he suggests that the Tablet is a sort of nautical map and that all the figures are points of the compass.

So far as I have been able to ascertain, the oldest treatise on the Bembine Tablet is that of Laurentius Pignorius, of Padua, published at Venice in 1605, entitled, "An accurate explanation of the very Ancient Brazen Tablet, engraved with the Sacred Figures of the Egyptians;" it is furnished with a reduced size drawing of the Tablet.

It is dedicated to Cæsar Baronius, a Cardinal under the Papacy of Clement VIII. Pignorius, or Lorenzo Pignoria, as he was also called, died in 1631, but another edition of his book was published in 1669, by Andreas Frisius; he distinguishes the figures by means of letters, and his plate is of full size. The plate of the first edition has no letters of reference. Very unfortunately Kircher's plate, published 1655, had a separate and different set of reference letters, hence much confusion has arisen. The Photogravure in this volume has the lettering of Kircher, and my drawing is an accurate copy of the plate in the Œdipus Ægyptiacus. Pignorius was a very learned classical scholar, and the author of many valuable works on classical archæology, but he was somewhat out of his depth in attempting an explanation of Egyptian theology. His treatise in fact, is a study of Greco-Roman theology, with many valuable classical references, apropos of the figures on the Tablet, but is hardly an elucidation of them: he lacked the vast Coptic, Arabic, and Hebrew information possessed by Kircher. Pignorius did not claim to understand the Tablet, and confessed that although he identified certain figures, he had not hit upon the design of its author, and he does not make any attempt at a detailed description of the plate itself, or even of all the principal figures.

Athanasius Kircher in his Œdipus Ægyptiacus, A.D. 1654, has a very long treatise explanatory of the Tablet; he commences with a short history, and then passes on to a consideration of what use could be made of it, deciding that it probably formed a mystic ornament in the sanctum sanctorum, or adytum of some Temple in Egypt, for the Egyptians, like the Hebrews, provided such secret chambers in which the priests performed the most holy rites. Then follows a philosophical argument on the meaning of the symbolism, but this is short, because the meaning of each part follows later on. It embodies the doctrine of the triple arrangement of the constitution of the world, into Archetypal, Intellectual, and Sensible; the Paternal Mind as a centre gives motion and animation to all things, and marks every thing with the characteristic of Trinity.

p. 4

"The universe is regulated from the Paternal Foundation through three triads; this Foundation is variously called—The IYNX, Soul of the World, The Pantomorphous Redeemer, and by Philo, The Constructive Wisdom, and exists in the perfection of triads of Pater, Potentia, and Mater or Mens, the Father, the Power, and the Mother, or Design: co-existing with Faith, Truth, and Love. The order, disposition, administration, and functions of the Divine Powers are also shewn here, which are typified by the companions and officers of the Divine and Supreme Mens, the Great Potentia, and of the Paternal Iynx. Here are seen the Rectores Mundorum, Rulers of the Worlds, each with his notable symbols, whether of air, or of fire, or of material things. Here are also the Patres Fontium, the Fathers of the Fountains, Sources, Origins, Causes, whose care and duty it is, to decide and preserve the Principia, the dominions, the elements of all things, and the inviolable Laws of Nature."

Here, the curious reader may perceive the Zonia, and the Azonia, divinities not bound to any certain sphere, each with proper ornaments, and relegated to male and female forms. Indeed the formation of the Tablet is such that it must also be effectual as an amulet against evil influences.

He then describes the divisions of the Tablet, which need not be repeated here, and points out eight special points of notice in the figures, the head-dress, clothing, wands, and weapons, hieroglyphics, the actions implied, the position, erect or seated, and the form, sometimes animal, at others human, in other cases, combined.

"The Egyptians considered the Divinity in two manners, as an Eternal Existence, self-constituted and quite apart from terrestrial concerns, or in connection with created objects which it governs by ministering spirits, and secondary powers They admitted a Triple essence of Deity, and also a triform secondary divinity, as they had learned of Hermes Trismegistus. This Divinity imprinted his seal upon all earthly things, both living and dead. Upon this same essential plan was this Tablet constructed."

This system of Philosophy and Theosophy which Kircher associates with the Isiac Tablet, is of an extremely occult character. It is almost identical with that form which is ascribed to Zoroaster, as founder of the Chaldean or Chaldaic system. It has many points in common with the Kabbalistic scheme of the ancient Hebrews, which is known to us chiefly through the medium of the Zohar and Sepher Yetzirah. (A large portion of the former work is now for the first time being translated into English and published by Mr. S. L. MacGregor Mathers, and the latter has been translated from the original Hebrew versions by myself.) This Sepher Yetzirah, as Eliphas Levi pointed out, throws much light on this Tablet. The Chaldean doctrines are fully described by T. Stanley the Elder, in his History of Philosophy, 1740.

The Eternal Being is first, with an Emanation of Light and Fire; then powers Æviternal and Incorporeal, in three orders: 1st, Intelligible; 2nd, Intelligible and Intellectual; and 3rd, Intellectual; and lastly Mortals.

In the second form are placed Fountains and Principles, and also Azonia, or Unzoned Gods, not restricted to any particular sphere, and the Zonia, or Deities restricted to special worlds; Angels and Souls succeed these. The Pater, Potentia and Mens, so often alluded to by Kircher are referred to the order of Intelligibles. The Iynx (this word has in Greek several meanings—Passion, Desire, Magic Wheel, a Charm, a Wryneck Bird) heads the second order of Intelligibles and Intellectuals, to whom follow the Synoches and the Teletarchs. The third order includes the Once Above, Hecate, the Twice Above, the three Amilicti, and the Hypezocos, seven Fountains of Power. Any further attempt at explanation would lead us too far from the object of this volume. Proclus, Psellus, Damascius, and Porphyrius should be consulted.

Kircher then proceeds to describe and explain, as follows:—

The Middle Region. In the centre is placed the most important design, consisting of The Great Gate of the Gods, an architectural canopy over a throne, on which is a seated figure. On the top of the canopy are shewn diverging flames, below is a globe double winged, then a second winged globe, a third is also seen below the seat of the figure: around the sides of the canopy are a series of squares, in which are circles with eight divisions. A column marked with alternate black and white bands and surmounted by a head of Isis, stands on each side of this canopy. Seated within is the figure of a female, dressed from waist downwards with feather markings, and having many closely placed breasts (not shewn in the drawing); on her head a fillet, and a Numidian bird the Turkey surmounting this, on its back a basket from which arise two Persea leaves and two horns, these latter bound a disc on which is a Scarabæus. In her right hand is a Lotus

p. 5

flowered sceptre and her left hand is raised in attitude of command. Her seat is plain, but a sitting Dog is engraved on it. Below her seat is another design, an Abacus, within which lies a monster Nepher, part Lion, part Hawk, a Canopus between its fore paws: behind it is seen a Globe Winged and combined with a Serpent, over its head is a crescent Moon, 'and a sun within it. On each side of the Canopy are placed columns, and on each is a Serpent, as if as a guard.

There are Three principal figures on each side of the goddess, each triad O Q R on the right, and X Y Z on the left, consists of one seated figure, and two standing ones: note that O and Z are clothed alike: R and X next the canopy have similar pedestals, wands and head-dress: Q is Ibis headed, and Y is a seated .female human figure.

This Central Canopy represents the diffusion of the Triform Supreme Mens in the universal ways of the Three Worlds, from which process of evolution this Sensible World or Universe emerges, called by Plutarch the Borne of Horus, and by the Egyptians the Great Gate of the Gods.

The diverging flames on the summit of the canopy mean the eternal and incorruptible supreme Mens, full of Fire, Light, and Life: the influence is communicated to the Intellectual, Sensible, and Elementary Worlds, as pictured by the three winged globes.

The seated figure is the Supreme Mind, or PANTOMORPHOUS IYNX Multiform Sphynx, or Logos, Word, or Soul of the World, and is placed here in the middle, as in the Centre of Universal Nature. The sitting posture denotes Power and Dominion., the Dog is drawn on the seat, because the Isiac Iynx is associated with the Dog Star, Sirius, or Sothis: the feather winged clothing of the limbs denotes the sublime velocity of the higher powers: the abundance of breasts denotes the unlimited powers of creation and preservation: the necklets denote the celestial orbs in constant movement: the fillet on the head, or covering, denotes the hidden procedure of Nature, and the Turkey (the Numidian bird of Martial) of many colors and spots, denotes the variety of created things. The Basket denotes abundance, and the Persea denotes that Wisdom which administers all events: the Horns denote the Moon, and the Scarabæus and disc the Sun, the sceptre denotes that all things are modelled after the pattern of the Paternal Mens, and the Lotus means the unwearied procession alike by night and day, the raised left hand denotes the ruling power whose every command is fulfilled. This mother of Universal Nature the Egyptians called ISIS, of her they indicted the inscription:—

"Ego Isis omne sum id quod est, et fuit, et erit, et meum peplum nemo mortalium unquam retexit."

"I am Isis, I am all that is, that has been, and that will be, and No Mortal has ever yet withdrawn my Veil."

The Squares and Quaternary, and the Octuple division of the Circles, which form a design on the columns of the canopy, denote the numbers 4 and 8, which together produce 12, the symbol of Mundane Perfection. The alternate dark and white spaces on the columns refer to the ever varying vicissitudes of terrestial affairs. The two Serpents on standards are Ophionian Agathodæmons, Good Divinities, they indicate the life of earthly being, vegetable and animal, which need heat and moisture. The Abacus below means the Elementary World, The Lion T with the black veil is the Earth, the Hawk head refers to Elementary Fire: the Moon and notable star the Sun, point out that all things below are influenced by Luni Solar power: the Canopus means Elementary Water; a bi-partite flame above and two feathers denote Elementary Air, meaning that Water by Heat becomes vapour. The Kuklo-ptero-morphos, or Serpent Winged Globe means that all this Elementary World is animated and preserved by the power of the Supreme Triform Deity. The Elementary World is also called Hyle by the Greeks.

The hieroglyphics of the upper set in face of the IYNX read as follows:—The entrance to the quadripartite world, through which the Pantomorphous Soul of the World Both enter, it penetrates all things with the eye of divine Providence, bestows the sphere of life by flowing both through the four parts of the superior world, and through the five gates of the inferior. world. The lower group reads thus:—The Barrier of the portals of the Superior and Inferior Worlds, of which the chain of the Zones is removed by the Ibimorphous Agathodæmon. (N. B. Kircher's translation of the hieroglyphics must be taken with all caution, as the secret language of the hieroglyphics has been lost since the period of the Ptolemies, until the last few years.) Orpheus has well described the Pantomorphous Nature Mother in the lines commencing:—

Natura omnium mater Dea, artificiosa mater;
Suscitatrix, honorabilis, multa creans Dæmon Regina.
p. 6

Nature, all-parent, ancient and divine
O much mechanic Mother! art is thine
Heavenly, abundant, venerable Queen
In every part of thy dominions seen.
The Two Serpent figures Y and W, with the central Sphynx T form the Ophionian Agatho-demonic Triad, or Serpent Good Deities, the symbols of the Pantomorphous Spirit of the World, acting in the Three Spheres, Intellectual, Ethereal, and Elementary. Of the two lateral triads, Q and Y are Patres seated, R and X Potentiæ, O and Z the Mentes, the faces of all are turned towards the Great Mens.

Q is Ibimorphous, a Male divinity with the head of the bird Ibis. This is Hermanubis, the Mercury of the Romans, Hermes of the Greeks; the Ibis head denotes Deity of Moisture; the tesselated chair points out the ever changing states of nature, day and night, heat and cold, etc. Orpheus wrote:—

"Qui Mundi habenas tenet, variegatâ, sede splendidus."
"Who holds the reins of the world, splendid on his variegated throne."

The Quail pictured on the seat is a symbol of adversity, through which the general good of the universe is consummated. The Crux ansata of the Right Hand shows the influx of virtue from above, and the Isis headed wand, the power delegated by Isis, Pantomorphous  Nature Goddess. Of the head-dress the flames denote the power of heat; the serpents, life; the feathers, velocity and subtility; and the floral centre, fecundity.

The two Crocodiles below the throne denote the evil powers of Typhon under the subjection of the Ibis.

The eighteen divisions of the footstool denote the eighteen cubits rise of the Nile; which confers the acmé of fertility, and the Ibis Thoth is the Nile deity. O is the Mens of the Triad, is a female with a full breast, she has long wings reaching to the ground, her feather wand denotes dominion over airy powers, and the vase on the pedestal, the nourishment by the Nile water, the hieroglyphics above read:—"The airy good genius of all nature, communicates its power by moisture so fecundating it." P is an Andro-sphynx, the fiery nature deity, and the hieroglyphics read:—"The divine arbiter by his power impresses with his seal the heavenly life." R is the executor of the commands of this triad, he is almost naked and his legs apart as in motion on his pedestal we read:—"He penetrates with the greatest celerity through the celestial sphere, through the moist Kingdom of Momphta, and the sacred Ibimorphous lakes." S is a flying Hawk it holds a circle and a rod, and refers to the power of heat, supplied by the archetypal Fire of the Supreme Mens.

This whole triad denotes Masculine Potency, Active agents, while on the other hand X Y Z are Feminine, and Passive; but neither of them so in totality, but for the present purpose; for the Egyptians considered a deity to be bisexual, or asexual, yet becoming either active or passive, male or female as specially required.

Here then we find the presiding Pater of the Triad to be a female, she is Nephta, throned and with a flowery head-dress, a kneeling figure beneath the seat, and on the pedestal is a Lion the symbol of Momphta, the rising Nile. On her head with triple flower symbols, is a winged scarabæus beetle, type of the fecundating power of the Sun.

Z is a similar form of Mens to O, with long wing and vase on a pedestal before her, her breast is full of milk. X differs from R the corresponding figure, it is a female also with the tumid breast, and a head-dress with globe, serpents, and feathers. α and β are companion figures, the Numidian Turkey and a Hawk.

The Iynx of Chaldea, or Soul of the World, or Paternal Word, is also called by the Egyptians, Hemphta.

The Azonian Hecatine Triad, L M N. This triad contains three Mentes, named in Greek, Triecdotis, Komas, and Ecclustiké, while the Azonian gods are Serapis, Bacchus, and Osiris. The centre of all influxes is denoted by the head M, female with black veil and white ears, three necklets, and a great doorway of the world on her head. She is Isis under the form of Hecate, a type of the Great Pater, her white ears are canine, the dog was sacred to her. She was the faithful guardian and preserver of earthly treasures. Because the sensible world is subject to many changes, it is marked by the Lotus flowered column, by it are two heliotrope flowers, denoting the Solar motion, and the particolored column also points out the alternating states caused by the Solar motion: the column stands in a cordiform pedestal for a mysterious reason The attendants L and N are called by Psellus Triecdotis and Komas their breasts are pendulous with their abundance of milk, they have triple collars, relating to the animal, vegetable and mineral natures.

p. 7

The Serapean Triad, ζ Zeta, η eta, and θ theta, is named from the head of monstrous shape marked H, this is the Pater, Zeta is the Mens, theta the Potentia: this is the Fontane triad of Faith, Truth and Love. Serapis is the Sun below the horizon, subterraneous, which the Greeks called Pluto and Dis, exercising authority over all the lower world. On his head are three feathers, of the triform deity, close by are drawn a Frog sitting on a Persea flower, and a Cynocephalus with a Moon above its head. The attendants stand one on each side of a similar mysterious column, as in the Hecatine picture, and the whole has a similar meaning.

The Isiac Triad is placed over the Hecatine, in it we see the white and black Bull Mnevis, fecund deity of Omnipotent Nature: and the Osirian Triad is placed over the Serapean, in it is a White Bull or Apis, the one specially Lunar, the second Solar, and they have a relation to agriculture. The attendant K is Triptolemus holding a cup and a bovine phallus, G is Maro, the words above are:—The propagator of the celestial fluid to lower beings. The other two attendants are similar. Pignorius names the two bulls, Onuphis and Menuphis.

Kircher then sums up the objects in the Middle Region as follows:—

The first Triad of the Fiery Archetypal World, the Triform World of Life, and the Uncreated World bring forth seven triads,—Genii of the Universe:—

Iyngean,

Ophionian

or

World of Life and Fire, Æthereal.

 

Ibimorphic

or

World of Moisture, Æthereal.

 

Nephtæan

or

World of Fecundity, Æthereal.

 

Isiac

or

World of the Moon, Sidereal.

 

Osirian

or

World of the Sun, Sidereal.

 

Hecatic

or

World of Vegetable growth, Sublunar.

 

Serapean

or

World of Subterraneous existence.

The Kabbalists describe Ten Worlds of which the three highest, referring to Kether, Chocmah and Binah are concealed, and are also denoted by the mystic A M S either male or female they also specify Four Worlds, the Aziluth for Deity, Briah, for Archangels, Yetzirah for Angels, and Assiah for Demons, Human beings and Matter; these possess secret names which are OB = 72, oib; SG = 63, seg; MH = 45, mah; and BN = 52, ben.

The Superior Region. These twelve figures represent the Twelve Directors of the Celestial World. They are selected into four triads, and answer to our twelve signs of the Zodiac, and twelve months. Triad One consists of P S and V, referring to the months whose Coptic names are Mechir, Phamenoth; and Pharmuthi, these three constitute Winter or Mendes. The corresponding Hebrew months were Shebeth, Adar, and Nisan or Abib: that is January 26th to April 26th very nearly. Triad Two is X Z and A, the months Pachons, Paoni, and Epiphi, and are Spring or Ammon; the Hebrew are Iyar, Sivan, and Tammuz, April 27th to July 24th. Triad Three consists of B C and E, the Months Mesori, Thoth, and Paophi, the time of inundation, Momphta, Summer; the Hebrew months are Ab, Elul, and Tizri, July 25th to October 27th. Triad Four consists of the months, Athyr, Choiak, and Tybi, F G and H, forming Omphta, or Autumn; correspond to Cheshvan, Kislev, and Tebet, from October 28th to January 25th; but Hebrew and English months do not correspond exactly; Hebrew months begin with the New Moon.

Psellus, quoting Zoroaster, says:—After the Intelligible Divinity, named "The Iynx," come the Directors of the Sidereal World, ruling over elementary fire, air, and matter. Compare the Sepher Yetzirah, cap. 5, sec. 1, where the twelve simple Hebrew letters are associated with the months and zodiacal signs. The most ancient Egyptian Zodiacal signs were, according to Kircher:—Ammon, Apis, Helitomenon and Harpocrates, Hermanubis, Momphta, Isis, Omphta, Typhon, Nephtys, Mendes, Canopus, and Ichton.

The later Demotic Zodiacal figures were in the same order:—A skin, bull, shoots of a plant, scarabæus, knife, virgin, solar mountain, snake, arrow, life, water, and fish.

In the , S the Pater, V the Mens, or Mother, and P the Potentia, form the Triad of Mendes, the Goat, which is seen on the altar M: this symbol refers to the fecundity of the earth ready to nourish the germs of growth. It was customary to sacrifice goats at this season as an appeal for a favourable season. Capricornus translated into the skies, according to the. Greeks, refers to Mendes. Pis male, and V a female with tumid breast, each carries a Crux Ansata token of the Apotropæum Numen, or Intercessory Deity. These are symbolical of the Active and Passive powers of Nature; Q and T are tablets acting as Amulets.

In the Second Triad of Ammon X is the Pater, Z the Mater or Mens, and A the Potentia. Note the Ram Ammon seen above standing by a plant with three fructifying branches, symbol of the intense and ripening heat of the season. Rabbi Jehuda in the Zohar says, "to denote heat they drew a Ram,

p. 8

the horns diverging upwards being types of flames of fire." X is Ammon as a warrior with a lance, a Nilotic Phenicopterus in his left hand; the is often combined with Osiris.

Z is Mother Isis to whom corn and fruit are dedicated. A the Potentia carries an Ibis Feather in the right hand and a Vase of Nile water in the left. (Pignorius says that the peculiar conical skirt of A is to insinuate Priapism.)

Y, the Cynocephalus, marks the vernal equinox; below his seat are six circles with crosses of four lines, referring to 24, because at the equinox, when the day is 12 hours long, this animal was said urinam reddere every hour through the day, and through the night 24 times.

The Third Triad, named Momphta, refers to Summer, its figures are B C and E. It is so called because Momphta is the presiding genius of Leo, the Rising Nile, which D, the Nilotic Sphynx expresses; on the head of D are the Crescent Moon and the Sun .dark, on the base are six quadrifid circles, or 24 days of increase, and 24 days of decrease. C is the Pater, an Intercessory deity, his vase shaped head-dress. is ornamented with circles, a snake emerges from it, and above it are two hawk's feathers and a circle; symbols of the vigour of the Sun, heat and life. His companions are the Mens, an Isis E, and the Potentia B. E has a white head-dress, a vase above it, then horns, star, and feathers, in her right hand a feathered sceptre, two triangular sistra hang from it. The horns are Isiac and the star is Sothis, whose heliacal rising preceded the Inundation: the sceptre is a weapon against Typhon, who is always supposed to be disturbed by music or noise. B carries an Absinth branch, and has, a Thermuthis on her head, the Absinth, enemy of putrifaction, was plentiful at the beginning of the month Thoth.

The Fourth Triad is called Omphta, and concerns the Autumn. Omphta is the protector of the sign Libra, a Beneficent deity, ruling when the land of Egypt, pregnant with moisture after the inundation, is so disposed to fecundity; it is the figure G, with the Thyrsus in the right, and the Phallus oculatus in the left hand. The companion F holds a Cuckoo-headed wand and in the left hand a cup of black earth, alluvium, a happy augury for agriculture, which is referred to by the beast's tails of .F and G. H is an Atoning deity, carrying a Lotus flower wand, to ward off attacks of Typhon, the evil one; she also has a full breast, symbol of fruitfulness.

The Inferior Region. This contains twelve principal figures, the Fathers of the Perennial Fountains, the Rulers of the Terrestial World: these are also divided into four series of triads—ψ Ff Hh, the Western; ξ ο Σ, the North; τ φ χ, the Southern, λ M N, the Eastern.

The triad of the Great East Gate of the World presents M, the boy Horus, enclosed in the portico, he is involved in a network, holds a wand with a Cuckoo head and a cross upon it, and also a square and a trumpet; behind his neck hangs a triangle with a globe emerging from it. The portico is ornamented with a Winged Globe above, and its sides with quadrifid circles, and five pointed stars alternately placed.

This gate admits all light, life, and motion, symbolized by the winged globe, to the four parts of the world, and the five orders of beings.

Horus is the Sun, which confers heat and light to our earth, and rises in the East: the network points out that its origin and powers are hidden from our knowledge: the Cross denotes its power over the four elements, the Cuckoo head denotes variety of production, the square denotes order and symmetry, and the clarion, harmony: Plato calls the triangle the symbol of the world.

The hieroglyphics on the pedestal read thus:—

"The parent of vegetable nature, preserver of moisture, the sacred guardian of the Nile—Osiris, pantomorphous or many formed genius of living beings and things, making them fertile."

N is a female figure filletted, with a Hawk on her head, offering five cups to Horus; this is the Mater or Mens of the triad. The Hawk expresses Heat and Light, and the five cups are the semina of water, air, minerals, vegetables, and animals. She is a form of Isis. λ is the Potentia, a female figure with a Lotus flower wand, an asp with a turgid breast above it, and a star; in her left hand is a cup, her breast is full. This Asp is ophionian, called Thermuthis, and means the Life and Motion of things.

The Second Triad is named Æluromorphos, Fontana, or Western, and is placed at the opposite end of the Region. Ff is the Parens, a female figure with cat's head, standing in, a portico; above is the Winged Globe, symbol of the influx of the Supreme Mens; around are the quadrifid circles; referring to the Mundane world. In her right hand is the Lotus wand, in her left the Crux Ansata; on her head are a globe; scarabæus and

p. 9

serpent. In the West, the Sun leaving the Upper Regions, seeks the Lower, night comes on, when Ælurus, or the Cat, with eyes specially fitted for night use, becomes powerful The Moon then supplants the Sun, for the Egyptians looked upon the Moon and her Rays, as the Sun's Rays reflected from a Mirror, instead of being direct. The Crux Ansata was a most powerful amulet or phylactery against evil powers, which are most offensive in the darkness.

ψ the Mater or Mens, carries a wand with flowering top in the left, the Phallus in the right, on her head is a diadem of two flames, two feathers, two asps, and a circle or star: the phallus denotes Fecundity, the flower head, vegetable nature, the diadem, Heat, Life, and Motion, reflected to the Moon from the Sun.

H is the Intellectual Potency, Fecundity, in his left hand is a papyrus stem, sign of plenty, his right hand command the wishes of the androgyne Pater and Mens. Over his head are the Thermuthis and star,—(see above).

But this triad presents us with three extra figures, d, e, and Ω. d is a sitting Dog, with a Sistrum, a musical instrument consisting of an oval metal frame, with loose rattling crossbars, this designates the Horizon destitute of solar light.

Plutarch says the horizon is Anubis, the dog headed custodian: the sistrum is to terrify Typhon the Evil one.

Omega Ω is also Anubis the Andro-kuno-morphos, with globe, serpent, and Ibis feather on his head; the Ibis being an enemy to the crocodile Typhon. It is on a column, and may be compared to the Hecatine Cerberus. e is Horus the Sun, harmony in the sensible world.

The Third Triad is Pandochæan, the presidency of the genii of the North.

The central figure is O a female seated; she has a full breast, the Lotus flower wand, and the mark of Thoth, the Crux Ansata in her right hand. Her seat has a chest board ornamentation, and her dress has a sort of crux ansata scattered over it. She is seated as a ruler of the North, which has definite limits; her variegated seat, marks the light and shade of the Northern Sun, corruption and generation alternating. The crux is needed as a protection from Typhonian powers, the Lotus Wand points to the archetypal Sun. The number Nine is associated with the North, being next to Ten, the complement of all good. First, the seat points out alternate day and night; secondly, the vegetable fasciculus of nature; third, the plenitude of influx shewn by the many cruces; fourth, the Crux ansata amulet; fifth, the Lotus sceptre, the Archetypal Sun; sixth, the Mundane cup or reservoir; seventh, the asps, the sanctuary of seminal vitality; eighth, the cloven cross, the mystery of the Solar Agathodæmon; ninth, the wings mark the barriers of the intellectual virtues. On the pedestal are alternate quadrifid circles and sets of five lines, the Egyptian symbol for the number nine.

ξ Xi the attendant Mens has the Cuckoo wand and the Crux, and Globe and Serpents over head. Σ or Sigma the Potentia on the left of Pandochus carries a Quail, symbol of the wicked wiles of Typhon, against which the winged-serpent-globe, good-deity, marked a, works with constancy.

The Fourth Triad is Thaustic, the presidency of the Southern genii. The Pater, φ or Phi, is seated on a throne, ornamented like that of the North; his right hand commands his Mens T, his left has a papyrus stem, his head is most special, being Ierakomorphous, or like that of an Hawk. He is seated as a Ruler, and fixes the limits southwards, the Hawk head refers to the Solar Intelligence, life, light and spirit. He is called Thaustus, and Baieth, which means the Heart of Life, His crown is marked with many circles, which means dominion over many realms. The number 7 is dedicated to him, note the quadrifid circles and three lines, recurring on the pedestal. His companion T offers him a cup of Nile Water, and a Hawk's feather, she is clothed with a deer skin. These mean the heat producing Southern climate, so valuable for growth; on her head is a vase of flowers, with a statue of Hecate. This T is the subterranean Isis, called by the Greeks Persephone, the deity of flowers, fruit, and vegetables, and refers to the richness and fertility of the Southern Nile. χ or Chi, the Thaustic Potentia, is also a female figure, with body and lower limbs covered by Hawk's wings wrapped around them: the Pharaonic bird, the Turkey, is on her head, and above it a cup, from which emerge two Cows’ horns, with the Dog Star, Sothis, between them. This lady is the Nilotic Isis, she is an Atoning Divinity, the Sothis was sacred to her. Sothis is also placed over Y, the Scarabæus with open wings. C is an Ibis with a Nilotic Vase from which grows the Absinth or Seriphius, also sacred to Isis; it was supposed to purify water. The Ibis is the Agathodæmon, or good genius of the Nile.

[The South of Egypt was always held in great veneration and was called the Lamp of Light, and the Cup of the World.

p. 10

[paragraph continues] The Egyptians also called the North the Right and the South the Left of the Universe, because the human heart sending forth vivifying blood to all the system is on the left side, so with the Nile, the fount of all moisture and fertility to Egypt. Osiris a Nile Deity was black like the fertilizing Nile mud, hence Khem, Chem, Ham, words derived from the Chaldee CHM, heat and blackness. Horus was not painted black, although the son of Osiris. There is a mystical allusion in this blackness of the god, he is the lower shadow of a great light one, black by contrast. Lévi says that a great secret of the Egyptian mysteries was revealed when the neophyte of the priesthood was told, "Osiris est un Dieu noir."—Lévi.]

The Limbus. Of this vast array of designs only a limited mention can be made on account of want of space. Upper Row. 1, a Dog sitting before a Sistrum and a vase of Nile water, and on either side a Lotus flower and a Persea leaf, a Phallus behind and before him. The Lotus was a white Nymphæa with narrow lily-like leaves; its flower rose above the water and expanded at sunrise, and closed and sank at sunset. The pendent Persea leaf is tongue shaped, its plant had a heart-shaped fruit. The Dog is Anubis the Guardian and preserver of the phallic fecundity of Osiris, and winged-serpent-globe is the cause of all causes, the Supreme Mens. 2 is a Hawk with the head of Horus, the idea of Terrestrial Providence. 3 is a Lion or Momphta, the action of the fiery heat of the Sun upon the earth. 4 is the Phallus oculatus adored by 5, Nephta praying for fecundity. 6 with Hawk head and Asp body is a good deity, symbol of light, life and motion, acting under 7, a Bovine head meaning Lunar influence. 8, a Frog upon an altar, living in Nile Mud, was sacred to Isis, but was a type of the lowest creatures and formation. 9 is an Androsphynx, Man Lion with a kneeling man, 10, before him. 11, 12, 13, 14 are a boat with a Mnevis Bull and attendants; this boat is the famous Egyptian Barys, it has a Hawk figure head, Horus with an oar, a plant of the sacred Erica, erect Persea leaves, a square in front of the Bull, and a guardian Ibis with a feather, and a crescent moon on her head, a lotus flower is on the poop of the vessel, this vessel is the vehicle of the supreme influence passing down through all the universal paths of the world. 15, 16, 17, a worshipper is Horus, then the Hawk is Thaustica, Solar; and a Goat's head on an altar refers to Mendes or Simendes the Greek Pan the fertilizer. Then follow 18 and 19, the worshipper, and Ammon a Ram. 20 is a vase of Nile water used at the festival of the entry of the Sun into Aries, or Spring. Then follow 21, a Cynocephalus, 22, a worshipper, 23, a wine bearing fountain of Hecate, and 24, a Hawk-headed-Lion-sphynx, with a Canopus. 25, the Lion is Osiris causing an influx over the sensible world, Horus 27. 28 is the Luni Solar influence affecting the 29 Frog or mud, or primeval matter to fertilize it. 30, this Sphynx is Hemphta, the Supreme Intelligence. 32, Lion Sphynx is the Archetypal Fire. 33, Ibiform, is the Archetypal humidity. 34, Asp Sphynx, means the genius of life, heat and motion. 36, the Meleagris, the Genius seminalium rationum. 39, 40, 41, is a symbol of the influx of the triform deity, or Soul of the World, upon the Sun, Horus, and hence to the Nile by the virtue of the Leonine Momphta; the guardians of the bed are three, the Man-headed Canopus, the Hawk-headed Nilotic Osiris, and the Dog-headed Anubis, denoting the power of humidity, Luni Solar influence, and guardianship. 42, the Mnevis Bull, is the Universe. 45, 46, the conjunction of the Ibiform Nile genius, and Leonine, Heat. 47, 48, 49, the Ship of Ammon, with Horus as guide. 50, 51, conjunction of Momphta Leo, heat, and Mendes, goat, fecundity. 52, 53, 54 Ibiform Lunar intelligence, conjoining with Solar. 55, 56, 57, conjunction of the Anubis Mens with the Luni Solar Cynocephalus. 58 is the Sensible World, and 59 is the Soul of the World, the Scarabæus conjoined. 60, the Sothiac Mens, that of the Canicula or Dog Star.

The last portion of Limbus contains Atoning Deities. 61, the genius of Horns, before the Ophionian Mens, 62. 63 is like 30 64, 65, 66, the Hawk-headed Agathodæmon of Ormuzd, with the Mnevis Bull. 67, 68, 69, the Ibiformed Nilotic Horus group. 70 is Anubis. 71 is a Scorpion, evil demon, combatted by Momphta 72 and by 70. 73 and 74 denotes the war between Horns and Typhon. The plant by 70 and 71 was called Mars, Blood; and also Motmutin, and was a Portulaca, the title meant "delivering from death," it was used also as a medicine to combat fevers and inflammations.

[The true original sphynx I believe to have been the Virgin-headed and bosomed, Lion-bodied conception, symbol of the Zodiacal signs Leo and Virgo, under whose influence the Revivification of Egypt by the Nile inundation occurred.]

In his extremely valuable work, "L’Antiquité expliquée," Bernard de Montfaucon, the Benedictine, published in Paris, 1719, an engraving (said by Keysler to be inverted) of the Isiac Tablet, and a Chapter of description is added. He deems it to be a general sketch of the religion and superstitions of Egypt, and appears wholly symbolical and enigmatic: it is

p. 11

seen at once that this vast collection of figures, arranged in such a definite manner, must shroud some mystical meaning; but when it has to be decided whether the tablet be a history of the gods, or some system enveloped in religious secrecy, or ceremonies, or whether the tablet has a moral design, or even if it be a resumé of all these, hesitation is necessary. One thing is plain; certain characters appear several times, and act the same parts, yet the scenes are varied, as in a drama. Montfaucon considers that the work of Pignorius, Amsterdam, 1670, gives the most learned account, but in a suggestive rather than a dogmatic mode; while Kircher never hesitates, and is never embarrassed for a meaning, but M. adds, "his readers will find his account original, and will doubt whether any Egyptian ever thought as he did."

M. describes the tablet at length, and points out that there are three Regions, the first containing four scenes, the second three scenes, and the third four scenes, eleven scenes as of a drama. In the First Region he describes P as Osiris, S as a Priest sacrificing a goat to Isis, V; then X is Osiris offering a bird to Isis Z, who gives him a cup in return; behind Isis is a Man A holding a cup and a bill-hook; above the bird of Osiris is the Goat of Mendes, and below is Y a Cercopithecus, monkey. The third scene has three figures, an Osiris C between two figures of Isis B and E. D is a Griffin sacred to the Sun. The fourth scene completes the first band; Osiris F offers a cup to a figure G, whom M. fails to name: H is a final Isis without doubt. He remarks that G holds in his left hand an unknown emblem (the phallus oculatus of Kircher).

The Second Region. The fifth scene represents two figures of Isis, each holding a flower pendent from a tendril, and between them a column surmounted by the head of a cat, or of Ælurus, and above it a basket with handles. The Bull Apis with two priests occupy a space over this scene. The seventh scene resembles the fifth, with the exceptions that the Bull is Mnevis, and in the. lower compartment the cat head is replaced by a mysterious figure head or mask.

The sixth scene is the grandest of all, and contains seven figures, the chief actor being in the middle between two trills. This is Isis seated on a throne between columns with an architrave and cornice; on her head is a bird with its wings falling downwards to her shoulders, above the bird horns and a globe. Some think this bird the Numidica gultata of Martial, the fowl of Numidia, with spotted body. In a compartment below her are a Griffin and a Canopus, and a Star, probably the Sun, for the crescent Moon rests on the head of the Griffin.

The figures next Isis on each side seem like a Body-guard, and on each side of her is also a Dragon. Next come Q Ibis headed seated on throne over crocodiles, and Y an Osiris with a monstrous head dress, beneath him are a Kneeling Man, and a Lion. Above him is another bird similar to the Numidian head dress of the central figure. Two females O and Z similar complete the scene, these also resemble Isis, and they hold in the right hands curious sickles, which they hold over vases standing on columns: on their heads are horns and discs, and on the discs which are surmounted by feathers, are the mutilated organs of Osiris, these figures have long wings; they are probably priestesses of Isis. Above one is a Syren bird or Harpy and above the other a Sparrow.

The Third Region. The eighth scene has three persons, the central figure is framed M, he is apparently in a net, this is Horus, au Isis is behind him, and another before him offering a tray of goblets. The ninth scene is Isis seated between two figures of Osiris, one of whom offers her a bird.

The tenth scene presents Osiris seated; he is sparrow-headed, an attendant Isis is seen on each side, one has the Numidian bird head-dress.

The eleventh scene shows five figures, of which the chief is a Lion headed Isis, Anubis stands before her, next comes Osiris presenting to her a Phallus Oculatus (priapic eye), then follows Horns, and above him appears a cat holding a Sistrum, which was an Egyptian form of musical instrument, consisting of an oval metal frame with a handle, three or more metallic bars passed across the oval placed loosely in holes, so that a metallic tinkling was produced when the Sistrum was shaken: then finally a figure of Osiris with a great Serpent on his head closes the array.

Of the Limbus, or border of small devices, lie only gives a Catalogue, without any explanation of their meaning.

In Dr. Samuel Shuckford's "Sacred and Profane History of the World connected," Vol. II, p. 315, there is a discussion on our Tablet. The author seeks to prove that it was designed before the Egyptians came to worship images of Men and Women; because all the images before which priests are seen in posture of adoration, are those of Birds and Beasts; see the Border, nineteen examples; and he suggests that the worship

p. 12

of images of Men was their last and lowest form of Idolatry; the Beasts being only symbols of the great First Cause considered in his attributes and relations. The kneeling Priests are found in the Border only, and not once in the main body of the plate He concludes:—(1.) That the Border represents the several animals which were worshipped in Egypt at a certain date, and the priests of each cult. (2.) The Table itself pictures some of the Priests not in the act of worship, but each in some characteristic ministration. (3.) The Animal figures associated, with many, point out to which animal's worship. each one belonged. (4.) The five seated figures represent eminent Priests, and are Monuments of them; those who have animal heads instead of human are those who have been honored with the names of the gods whose symbols they carry. (5.) That Montfaucon has wandered unaccountably from the true explanation in supposing many of the human figures to be Isis and Osiris presenting goblets, and Birds and Staves to another, because no designs of any such trifling intercourses have ever been pictured by ancient writers respecting them

William Warburton, M.A., in his "Divine Legation of Moses," 1738 discusses the Bembine Tablet, and copies two of its figures in his chapter on the Hieroglyphics of the Egyptians. Book IV sec. IV, p. 185. He judges that the Tablet was made by some devotee of Isis living in Rome, that it was one of the latest of the old Egyptian monuments from the mixture of all kinds of hieroglyphics upon it and from its representing Isis in a galley that is as the first Cause of all things, which he adds was a late notion. He remarks that Jamblichus and Tacitus teach the notion the Egyptian symbol of a Ship and Pilot always referred to Isis and meant "the governor of the universe.

Paul Ernest Jablonski, in his Pantheon Ægyptiorum, 1750, makes many references to the Tabula Bembina. He considers that the central figure represents Neith rather than Isis, partly because the figure is seated, a characteristic of Neith in particular, according to Eustathius, and partly because of her head dress bearing a scarabæus on a globe. He also refers to the Canicula, or Little Dog beneath her seat, and adds who could be more properly placed in the middle of the tablet then Neith the Opifex or Artificer of the World, equivalent to the Greek Minerva. to some extent.

He notes that the Thermuthis or Uræus serpent, a constant companion of Isis, is placed each side of the central figure S, although this Thermuthis is also a type of Tithrambo, equivalent to the Greek Hecate, and as he says, "the just anger of the highest deities against the sins of men." He notes Ammon as the Ram, and Harpocrates as the Sun Renewed, with the feet closed in one case or network at the winter solstice; also the sacrifice of the Wild Goat at the Vernal equinox, figures S and M. The pair of designs L M N and ζ η θ are each two maidens, standing one on each side of what is considered to be the Nilometer, the measure of the rising of the Nile. I note that in one case they have flaccid empty bosoms, in the other they are turgid and full of milk, denoting the Nile Valley, at one time sterile, but after the inundation very fruitful. Another very interesting point in this connection is the fact of Egypt, the Nile Valley, being shewn by two women on one side of the glyph of the Nile, and compare this with the fact the Biblical name of Egypt is Mizraim, or MITZRIM, a dual form of MTZUR, indicating that the two banks of the Nile constitute the country; compare also the Greek dual Μεσραιν, mesrain. Sothis is also a title of Isis, it really meant in Egyptian—initium temporis, the commencement of time, or of reckoning time; from it is named the "Sothiac period." A Frog sitting on a Lotus leaf was a symbol of the Decreasing of the Nile, when much invaluable mud was left behind for agricultural purposes. The Coptic word HRUR means both subsidence of water and frog.

The same author Jablonski has in his "Opuscula," collected 1807, a tractate entitled, "Specimen of a new Interpretation of the Isiac Tablet," and also another named "A conjecture in conclusion." These are two very learned essays, and I cannot refrain from quoting from them, although I differ from him in many of his conclusions: his references to letters in the plate, refer to the edition of Andreas Frisius, so I have had occasion to change them for those used in my Photogravure. He suggests that the Tablet was designed in the time of Caracalla, or of the Antonines, and is a Calendar of Festivals of the Egyptian Religion, adjusted to the Roman divisions of the year: some Egyptian says, he designed it in Rome to prevent his forgetting the established order of his religious observances. It seems to form a series of symbols denoting the order of the Feasts of the Religion of Egypt.

In the Upper Region the Central Figure seems to be intended to represent the Rising of the Canicula, the Dog Star, Sothis, marking the beginning of the Egyptian year, and indeed the

p. 13

division of the whole Tablet marks the division of the year into three seasons, (Hermes Trismegistus gives three strings to the Lyre as Diodorus Siculus remarks), Winter, Summer and Autumn, their Spring being called "the beginning of Summer."

The first segment should represent the reign of Osiris, the rise of Summer; the second, the reign of Isis, beginning at the Summer solstice, and ending at the Autumn equinox; the third belongs to Horus and extends to the Winter solstice, including the remainder of Autumn and the Winter, until the renewal of the Sun.

In Egypt, the first day of the month Thoth was fixed by the Heliacal rising of Sirius, the Dog Star, in Canis Minor; this marked the beginning of their year, yet in this Tablet it is far otherwise, this event being placed in the middle of the Upper Region. The Romans had their feast of the New Sun, or the Finding of Osiris, on December 25th, which the Egyptians kept as a feast on the 11th day of Tybi, or January 6th. Hence it seems likely that the design was intended to fix Egyptian Feasts on the Roman Calendar, and was conceived about the date of the Emperors M. Aurelius, Commodes, or Caracalla, A.D. 161-216. In the first segment are P S V, by this group is signified the Vernal equinox, or the entry of the Sun into Aries. The first figure P is Osiris, with the Crux Ansata in his right hand, symbol of the energy of the phallus, fecundity, and life; in his left hand a wand headed by a Hoopoe or Lapwing, a notable bird, typifying Gratitude.

S is Horus, standing between Osiris and Isis, and sacrificing an Oryx, a Goat with a long neck, no beard, and straight horns. A famous festival was held at the Full Moon before the Vernal equinox, and sacrifices were offered. V is Isis holding the Crux Ansata in the left hand X is Horus as a hunter, with a spear and holding a bird. Y is a Cynocephalus, meaning an equinox (the Vernal), it is ornamented with the Lunar horns, orb, and asp of Isis. Above this the Ram of Ammon specially honored at Thebes., it refers to the entry of Sol into Aries.

Here ends Jablonski's specimen of interpretation.

In his second essay, "The Conjecture in conclusion," he deals with e, Omega, and Ff at the end of the Lower Region. e is Horus newly born, or Osiris refound, which comes to the same thing, he is swaddled up with feet together, and drawn of small size, hence the Winter Solstice. This birth of Horus is the same event as the birth of Harpocrates at Thebes (the 6th of Paophi). Ω or Omega, is the Cynocephalus or Anubis, the dog-headed boy, guide of Isis in her search for her husband's mutilated parts, and the Finder of them. Ff the Lion-headed-lady, is a form of Isis; this head he also calls that of Cebos, a ferocious and truculent animal: the combined personality means the Sun as the Lion head and the Moon as Isis, the Conjunction of the Sun and Moon.

The ancient Egyptians invented and first used several Cycles, periods of time, which have become famous. Of these, one was the Apis cycle of 25 years, another the Phœnix cycle of 500 years, but most renowned was the Sothiac cycle of 1460 years; this latter began when the first day of the month Thoth or Taout coincided with the Heliacal Rising of Sirius, or Sothis, the Canicula or Dog star in the constellation Canis Minor: such a Cycle began in B.C. 2782, another in B.C. 1322, the date of the commencement of the reign of the Pharaoh Rameses or Menephthah, and ended A.D. 138.

Among the ancient Egyptians, the seasons (lid not always coincide with the same monthly periods, because the number of the days were lunar. Their year consisted of twelve lunar months, to which they added five intercalary days, the festivals of Hesiri or Osiris, Set or Typhon, His or Isis, and Nebti or Nephthys. At the present time, the annual inundation commences about the end of June, and is at its height about the end of September.

Count Caylus, in his "Recueil d’ Antiquités," Vol. vii., remarks:—"This monument does not seem to date so far back in Egyptian history as the Biblical Pharaohs. As a proof of this, notice that the arms and legs are free and show a movement rare in the very ancient Egyptian designs: but if more recent than some extant works of art, it yet preserves the memory of the most ancient usages to which the Egyptians were always devoutly attached. This Tablet would serve to fix and preserve the Egyptian theology." He notes that every figure is drawn with the face in profile; that if the designs are not elegant, they are ye all drawn well proportioned; and that all are adult persons, except the son Horus. The great distinction between the figures conferred by the various headdresses, is noticeable, because on account of the heat of the climate, so simple a form of clothing was necessary, that differences of rank could not be represented by the body dress. The use of special batons and sceptres, as shewn in the Tablet, lead him to believe that the use of them arose in Egypt. All the seated figures are probably Divinities, either

p. 14

superior or inferior, for if a priest be drawn sitting, he has no special head-dress.

Commencing at the centre—Group One. Isis is found seated on a Throne, under a Canopy: the Serpents on either side of her are of the sort called Theban Nasser or Ophilinus, or flying serpents, they are not venomous; perhaps these are-male and female: before and behind Isis are found triads of figures, each triad an inferior deity, or monument of some notability, between two other figures. There are also two Birds aloft on each side of the Isis. Caylus makes no attempt to name or explain any of these figures.

Groups Two and Three are similar, the first behind the Isis, represents the Bull Apis, that on the opposite side the Bull Mnevis. Each Bull has a manger and two attendants. Apis is being offered two goblets, Mnevis only one. Apis is marked with a moon on the back and has a symbolic collar, and between the horns a disc with one marking; Mnevis has two. Apis is the Lunar, and Mnevis the Solar Bull. Below these Bulls are two other similar designs, one below each. These consist of two females, one on each side of an elevation; they at least have female breasts, but are otherwise like men in stature and dress. Above the elevated statue arrangement is in each case a head and face, very notable as being the only ones in the whole Tablet not drawn in profile. The bearded figure is called the Egyptian Dionysus or Bacchus, the female head is not named. He doubts whether the central ornaments be Nilometers, and notes that they are not alike in the number of their markings, one having 24 and the other 19 only.

In the First Segment, P S and V form a Fourth Group, occupied in the sacrifice of a Goat, or Gazelle; the priest slaying the animal is seen by the head-dress to belong to the cult of Y, the seated Deity facing the central Iynx; V is a priestess, not a deity, and P is a soldier or guard, bearing on his head the same dress as that of the seated Ibis-headed deity Q; the altar M is peculiar and deserves study.

The Fifth Group, X Z A, point to the cult of the Ram, and of the Dog Y. The Ram is an emblem of Jupiter Ammon. X is a soldier and so is A, both have but little clothing. The clothing of Z is star-spotted, and she wears a Deer skin.

The Sixth Group, B C E, show a worship of the Sphynx; note the Lion I). The Seventh Group shows no object of adoration; the Priestess of Isis, H, is administering an oath to two soldiers, F G.

Lower Region. Group Eight. M is Horus in a Temple entrance, cased in like a mummy. The lady λ bears a wand with a Serpent named Theban Nasser, the other attendant N bears a hawk on her head. Note that all the three canopies of the Tablet have the truly Egyptian form tapering upwards, the sides not vertical. Group Nine. ξ is a soldier. ο the seated goddess, is Isis or Nephta. Group Ten. The central Hawk-headed figure φ Phi, is consecrated to Isis, the others T and X are attendants. Group Eleven. Here we have a Dog-headed lady, erect under a canopy, and two attendants with an Anubis. Caylus describes the figures of the Limbus as forming Twenty Groups.

The Abbé Banier, in his work, "Mythology Explained by History," 1738, devotes a chapter to the Isiac Tablet. He summarizes the views of Pignorius, Kircher, and Chifflet, and adds, that to him it seems a Votive Tablet which some worshipper had consecrated to Isis in return for some success or favour attributed to the goddess: it represents three forms of offerings to Isis, animals, plants, and libations, varieties which the giver had perhaps himself made use of. Such Votive Tablets were very common in the temples of pagan deities, as Juvenal notes. Satire XVIII.

Et quum votiva testantur fana tabella
Plurima, Pictores quis nescit ab Iside pasci.
The great English masonic authority, the late Kenneth Mackenzie always took a great interest in the relation of the Tablet to modern tripartite craft masonry.

The late Dr. Kenealy made researches into the hidden meaning of the Bembine Tablet. He explains the Roses at the corners, each of twelve petals as symbolizing the Twelve Incarnations of the Holy Spirit, the Twelve Messengers from God to Man, who form an important feature of his doctrines of theosophy. He also notes a figure compounded of Goat (Deity), and Lamb (Messenger), with a mystic badge on the right shoulder indicative of the Female, or Holy Spirit nature.

Winckelmann, the great modern German Egyptologist, does not believe in Warburton's opinion that the Tablet was made in Rome, for he justly remarks that hieroglyphics are never found on pseudo Egyptian designs made by the Romans.

I have obtained what may be considered the opinion of the most advanced School of Egyptology of the day. Professor Le Page Renouf, of the British Museum, courteously explained his views to use. lie said he was of opinion that the Tablet

p. 15

was not designed by an ancient Egyptian, but in Roman or Mediæval times, by some one conversant with Egyptian monuments, who had selected the figures from various sources; that the ornamentation around the designs was not Egyptian, but more modern; that very few of the figures were those of well-defined divinities; and that the hieroglyphics were either badly copied, or intentionally disfigured, and that they are practically illegible even to himself and others, who can decipher the inscriptions on the ancient monuments of Egypt; and lastly, that he had failed to discover any scheme or design in the representation, neither of the series suggested to him any grouping geographical, theological, or astronomical. He was further of opinion that the curious design seen in figures and called by old authors Phallus oculatus, had no generative signification, but that these were the mystical eyes, which rather referred to the points of the horizon, North and South. Other modern scientists consider these Right and Left Eyes to typify the Sun and the Moon. The chapters of the Egyptian "Ritual of the Dead," present no scenes like those of the Tablet, but one chapter treats of the Adoration of the Mystical Eyes. In connection with the curiously designed symbol, called by Kircher, the Phallus Oculatus, because it seems to combine the phallus and a human eye note that Paamylia was an Egyptian Festival resembling the Greco-Roman Phallophoria. Some authorities refer it to the worship of Osiris, because of his mutilated phallus; others, objecting that Osiris was not an ithyphallic god, refer the festival to the worship of Khem; at any rate, it was at these festivals that this symbol was honored specially.

Such is a brief summary of the opinions of the learned men who devoted special attention to our Tablet. The extreme divergence of these views, and other considerations, have led me to conclude that the Tablet was not intended to serve any public purpose, but was intrinsically and of design without meaning to the ordinary Egyptian, or worshipper of Isis whether in Greece, Rome or by the banks of the Nile.

The designer arranged his figures and his symbols for an Esoteric purpose; he was doubtless a priest of the Cult of Isis, and happily succeeded in embodying his ideas of religion, cosmogony and astronomy in a form which has truly proved a masonic secret, a stumbling block to the uninitiated. It is a gross absurdity to suppose that any man capable of designing such a Tablet, over which immense energy, research, and knowledge must have been expended, to say nothing of the skill displayed in its execution, should have wasted his abilities in perpetrating a gigantic hoax: for that is I suppose what some modern writers mean who call it a "forgery;" but a forgery is a deceitful imitation, how it can be called an imitation considering that its special character is that of being different to any other stele or Tablet known, is not clear; and how it can be a deceit is also incomprehensible since it bears no name or date purporting to refer it to a definite author or period. On the other hand, if we assign to it an esoteric purpose, the mystery is explained, and the attention of true students of Occultism and of the Ancient Mysteries is ipso facto fixed upon it. The precise date and place of its manufacture will probably never more be known, but from the internal evidence afforded by the ornamentation, and the peculiarities of the hieroglyphics, it seems that its age cannot be anterior to the Persian conquest, circa 500 B.C., it might be reasonably assigned to the Ptolemaic period, say about 300 B.C. It is certainly not the product of Egypt after the Saracen invasion, 638 A.D. There seems no doubt its existence was first made known in Italy, and it must have been abstracted from a Temple of Isis either at Rome, or some other city where the Egyptian deities were worshipped, but even if that be so, the Tablet may yet have originated in Egypt itself, and may have been transferred to a new foreign temple, possibly as a valuable relic. Although it is obviously intimately related to Isis and to Egyptian views of Astronomy, there is a notable absence of any reference to the Osirian and Isiac myths directly, there is no war of Osiris and Typhon depicted, no mutilation, no sign of the journeyings of Isis in search of her dead lord. There is a notable absence of the most usual designs of Isis, and especially of Osiris (see the pictured forms in Bunsen and Wilkinson). There is no Tamarisk tree, and there are no fish represented, and no musical instruments but one small Sistrum at d in the lower region. Very few of the best known of the great gods of Egypt are recognisable as such, there are no Ammon Ra, ithyphallic Khem, Khons, Harpocrates with the finger on his lip, Seb, nor Sutech, so that the Tablet is not a diagrammatic Pantheon. Almost all authorities agree on an astronomical explanation of the Upper Region, the Middle Region exhibits a supreme Numen, Divinity, surrounded by six others, these refer to the very ancient set of seven Planetary deities, anal seven lower Sephiroth, Then on each side are Nilotic figures: the one, the Nilotic alluvium, passive, the other bursting into fecundity; over these the Solar Bulls. The Lower Region shews four scenes, of three characters each, of these scenes two have the principal enthroned,

p. 16

and two principals are canopied. The Limbus exhibits a series of acts of worship, and tutelary deities.

There are three representations which are conspicuous by their absence, namely the Four Genii of the Dead, Amset, Hapi, Tuamutef, and Kebhsnauf; the 42 Assessors of the judgment after death, and also any representation of the scene in the hall of judgment; some part of these allied, figures are found in a very large. number of Egyptian drawings, which form the designs of the 125th Chapter of the Per-M-Hru, or Ritual of the Dead.

There are a few notable figures to which modern research has assigned certain meanings, which I must mention, but of course these may not have been introduced here in this esoteric Tablet with those meanings. As to Crowns, the Crown of V is the Het Crown of the Kings of Upper Egypt, that of λ is the Techi Crown of the Kings of Lower Egypt, that of Σ and φ, the Pschent Crown of Entire Egypt; figure H in Upper Region, has the Crown of Osiris, the Atef. The face H in the Serapean triad is the mask and plumes of Bes, who was a Typhonic and priapic god. V and W, the Serpents, have the Crowns of Nisham and Eilitheia, goddess of Upper and Lower Egypt. Neither of the Bulls have the true marks of Apis, white triangle on forehead, vulture on back, white crescent on shoulder, and a cross on the flank. The two Boats of the Limbus are the Morning Barque of Ra, the Rising Sun, and the Evening Barque of Tum, the Setting Sun. T the Hieracoleontisphynx is called Nepher. The figure H has the hieroglyphics of the name Isis, followed by a Snake, which is a determinative of the names of goddesses. Figure 53 of the Limbus is the Phœnix, or Phenicopterus, the Benno of Osiris. 55 is the Cercopithecus, or Hapi, the Ape, similar to the Hindoo Hanuman.

The Nilotic Sphynx was an emblem of the world and year, and symbol of Concealed Wisdom; the Greek Neilos, is N = 50, E = 5, I = 10, L = 30, O =70, S = 200. Total 365 days.

The Winged Globe, and Serpent holding a rod with three knots, is sometimes called Kneph, and is. said to have represented almost our modern idea of the Holy Ghost, it occurs at α near O and many times in the Limbus, it is the Arcana Divinæ Essentiæ, the globe denotes immensity and eternity, the wings universality, the serpent life, the sceptre dominion, the knots are unity, equality, connection and mutual harmony. But Kneph was also a Ram-headed god, and V is almost identical with Sati his wife, who is close to the Ram over the X. M in the lower row said by Kircher to be Horus, renewed Osiris, much resembles Ptah, and F is also similar to his wife Pasht or Bast. χ is Hathor. T of the Inferior Region is drawn as Nehamao, daughter of the Sun and Lady of Tentyris. The figure marked by S in the Superior Region resembles Merula, last of the incarnations of Ammon. The greek small l or lambda marks the figure of Neith, or Minerva. Y over T in the inferior region is the Scarabæus Beetle called Khepra, and it meant the Creative energy of the Sun, and was also a type of Resurrection from the Dead.

Some authorities have suggested to me a Geographical interpretation, into the 36 Nomes of Egypt, each showing a special deity, but an attentive study of the subject has not induced me to accept the theory.

Horapollo wrote that by the Serpent the eternal life of the gods was meant; by the Hawk, a Bird with opened wings, air or wind; and by Canopus, or Canopic jars, usually three, was conveyed the Rise of the Nile water.

With these remarks, I am compelled by want of space to conclude the result of my studies of the history and exoteric view of the meaning of the Tablet: I now pass on to devote a few pages to suggestions of a recondite or esoteric explanation.

My comments on the hidden and mystical meaning of the Tablet will be fitly introduced by a reference to the works of Eliphas Lévi, and I must apologize for a digression into the occult purpose and significance of the Tarot. With any critic who has made no special study of the Occult Sciences, I must with the learned Postel, plead: "Lector, quisquis es, aut perlege et si potes perpende et intellige, aut abstine a censura."

I enter with extreme diffidence upon any representation of the opinions of the late Alphonse Louis Constant, better known as Eliphas Lévi; but give a short resumé of his own words, and point out the special character of the diagram he supplies. He was a philosopher entirely sui generis, nature has made such minds but rarely, and doubtless years must pass away before we see his like again.

His deep and earnest grasp of Kabbalistic lore, almost of itself puts him beyond any ordinary criticism, while his heartfelt enthusiasm for the Higher Magic carries conviction to the minds of readers, even when our ordinary natures pause on the limits of exoteric teaching, and hesitate to plunge into the paths of the Unknown. To any person who has not grasped, I do not say—has not read, the "Dogme et Rituel," no explanation

p. 17

 The Diagram of Eliphaz Levi
Click to enlarge
The Diagram of Eliphaz Levi

 Westcott's Diagram from the Views of Kircher
Click to enlarge
Westcott's Diagram from the Views of Kircher

of his opinions would be comprehensible; to those who have grasped the Occultism of Lévi, his view of the Tablet is an Unveiling of its Secret, and the Tablet becomes a Pantacle. It is matter of satisfaction that his works are still procurable in the Original, because the only English version, that of Mr. Arthur Edward Waite, although a judicious and skilful translation, is sadly marred by a re-arrangement of the chapters, and even of the paragraphs, which changes have in many instances reveiled even those secrets which Lévi had illumined by his wisdom, and initiates will be apt to conceive that the translator, although able, was himself outside the veil—an uninitiate.

In the "Histoire de la Magie," Lévi wrote:—"The most curious, and at the same time the most complete key to the Tarot, or modern version of the famous Book of Thoth, is found in the Isiac Tablet of Cardinal Bembo, which has been represented by Kircher in his work on Egypt: this learned Jesuit has divined, without being able to establish complete proof, that this Tablet contained a key in hieroglyphics to the sacred alphabet. It presents to us three groups of designs, above the twelve celestial mansions, and below the twelve laborious periods of the year, and in its central portion the twenty-one sacred signs, which correspond to the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In the middle of the central portion is seated the Image of the Pantomorphous IYNX, an emblem of Universal Existence, corresponding to the Hebrew letter Jod or I. Around the central Iynx are placed the Ophionian, or Serpentine triad; these three forms refer to the Three Mother Letters, A, M, and S of the Hebrew and Egyptian Alphabets. On the right side of the Iynx are placed the Ibimorphous and Serapean triads, and on the left those of Nephta, and of Hecate; symbols respectively of:—

The Active

and

the Passive.

The Volatile

and

the Fixed.

The Fecundating Fire

and

the Generative Water.

Each pair of triads in conjunction with the Iynx form a Septenary, the centre itself contains a Septenary. Titus the three Septenaries present us with the absolute number of the Three Worlds, and the complete number of Primitive Letters; to which is added a complementary sign, just as to the nine numerals is added a Zero. The ten numerals added to the twenty-two ancient letters form the Thirty-two Ways or Paths of Kabbalistic doctrine."

This is all that Eliphas Lévi writes directly about our Tablet; but he adds a diagram, or plan of the whole Table, except the Limbus or Border, and this diagram tells a more occult tale to the attentive student, it presents an even more esoteric view of the matter, which he has not thought fit to explain in words. Doubtless he considered that to the wise the diagram would speak sufficiently plain, and to the profane no explanation could carry instruction; hence I feel much hesitation in lifting the veil he has thought fit to leave over the subject; but at the request of the Editor of the series of Bath Occult Reprints, I proceed to give a glimpse within the Veil of the Saitic Isis.

The diagram of Lévi, by which he explains the mystery of the Tablet, shows the Upper Region divided into the four seasons of the year, each with three signs of the Zodiac, and he has added the four-lettered sacred name, the Tetragrammaton, assigning Jod to Aquarius, that is Canopus, He to Taurus, that is Apis, Vau to Leo, that is Momphta, and He final to Typhon. Note the Cherubic parallel—Man, Bull. Lion, and Eagle. The fourth form is found either as Scorpion or Eagle depending upon the Occult good or evil intention: in the Demotic Zodiac, the Snake replaces the Scorpion.

The Lower Region he ascribes to the twelve simple Hebrew letters, associating them with the four quarters of the horizon, compare the Sepher Yetzirah, cap. v., sec. 1.

The Central Region he ascribes to the Solar powers and the Planetary. In the middle we see above, the Sun, marked Ops, and below it is a Solomon's Seal, above a cross; a double triangle Hexapla, one light and one dark triangle superposed, the whole forming a sort of complex symbol of Venus. To the Ibimorphos he gives the three dark planets, Venus, Mercury,

_________________

BARON SWEDENBORG says:—"The ancients who were versed in the science of correspondences made themselves images which corresponded with things celestial and were greatly delighted therewith by reason of their signification, and that they could discern in them what related to Heaven and the Church, and therefore they placed those images both in their temples and also in their houses, not with any intention to worship them, but to serve as a means of recollecting the celestial things signified by them."

"Hence in Egypt and in other places they made images of calves, oxen, serpents, and also of children, old men, and virgins; because calves and oxen signified the affections and powers of the natural man; serpents, the prudence and likewise cunning of the sensual man; children, innocence; old men, wisdom; and virgins, the affections of truth, &c."

"Succeeding ages, when the science of correspondences was obliterated, began to adore as holy, and at length to worship as deities, the images and pictures set up by their forefathers because they found them in and about their temples."—"An Hieroglyphic Key to Natural and Spiritual Mysteries," 1792. Editor.

p. 18

and Mars placed around a dark triangle erect, denoting Fire. To the Nephthæan triad he gives three light planets, Saturn, Luna, and Jupiter, around a light inverted triangle which denotes Water. There is a necessary connection between water, female power, passive principle, Binah, and Sephirotic Mother, and Bride. (See the Kabbalah by S.L.M. Mathers.) Note the ancient signs for the planets were all composed of a Cross, Solar Disc and Crescent: Venus is a cross below a Sun disc, Mercury, a disc with a crescent above and cross below, Saturn is a Cross whose lowest point touches the apex of the crescent, Jupiter is a Crescent whose lowest point touches the left hand end of a cross: all these are deep mysteries. Note that Lévi in his original plate transposed Serapis and Hecate, but not the Apis noir and Apis blanc, perhaps because of the head of Bes being associated by him with Hecate. Note that having referred the 12 simple letters to the lower, the 7 double must correspond to the central region of the planets, and then the great triad A.M.S. the mother letters representing Air, Water, and Fire remain to be pictured, around S the Central Iynx, or Yod, by the Ophionian Triad the two Serpents and the Leonine Sphynx. Levi's word OPS in the centre is the Latin Ops, Terra, genius of the Earth; and the Greek Ops, Rhea, or Kubele (Cybele) often drawn as a goddess seated in a chariot drawn by lions, she is. crowned with turrets, and holds a Key; see frontispiece to "Asclepios," Bath Occult Reprint.

The Apis Bull was the image of the Sun, on earth, and Serapis was the Solar Bull deified after death; Serapis is a shortened form of Osiri-apis.

The Isiac Tablet, writes Lévi, is a Key to the Ancient Book of Thoth, which has survived to some extent the lapse of centuries and is pictured to us in the still comparatively ancient set of Tarocchi Cards. To him the Book of Thoth was a resumé of the esoteric learning of the Egyptians, after the decadence of their civilization, this lore became crystallized in an hieroglyphic form as the Tarot; this Tarot having become partially or entirely forgotten or misunderstood, its pictured symbols fell into the hands of the sham diviners, and of the providers of the public amusement by games of Cards. The modern Tarot, or Tarocchi pack of cards consists of 78 cards, of which 22 form a special group of trumps, of pictorial design: the remaining 56 are composed of four suits of 10 numerals and four court cards, King, Queen, Knight, and Knave or Valet; the suits are Swords (Militaryism), Cups (Sacerdocy), Clubs or Wands (Agriculture), and Shekels or Coins (Commerce), answering respectively to our Spades, Hearts, Clubs and Diamonds. Our purpose is with the 22 trumps, these form the special characteristic of the pack and. are the lineal descendants of the Hieroglyphics of the Tarot. These 22 correspond to the letters of the Hebrew and other sacred alphabets, which fall naturally into three classes of a Trio of mothers, a Heptad of doubles, and a Duodecad of simple letters. They are also considered as a triad of Heptads and one apart, a system of Initiation and an Uninitiate. These Tarots are named:—

1. The Magus.

11. Fortitude, Power.

2. The Hierophantess, Pope

12. The Hanged Man, Judas, Joan. Prometheus, the Adept.

3. The Queen, or Empress, Juno.

13. Death.

4. The King, Jupiter.

14. Temperance.

5. The Hierophant, Pope.

15. The Devil, Baphomet.

6. Marriage, the Lovers.

10. House of Plutus, Babel.

7 The Conqueror in a Chariot, Osiris

17. The Dog Star, Blazing Star.

8. Justice, with Sword & Balance.

18. The Moon.

9. The Hermit, Philosopher, Sage

19. The Sun.

10. The Wheel of Fate.

20. The Last Judgment.

21. The World, the Crown, Kether with the Cherubim.

0. The Uninitiate. The Fool. Le Mat.

These are the Names of the Tarots, I now add some hints of their significance:—

1. Aleph. Man. Unique God.

11. Kaph. Triple Chain.

2. Beth. Woman. Sanctuary.

12. Lamed, the Great Work, Crux.

3. Ghimel. Isis. Urania. Nature

13. Mem. Death, Renewal.

4. Daleth. The Cubic Stone.

11. Nun. The Seasons, Climate, mutation

5. He. Religion. Inspiration.

15. Samech. Evil Magic, Sabbat.

6. Vau. The Two Ways. Trial.

16. Oin. The Lightning, failure.

7. Zain. Victory.

17. Pe. Canopus. Sirius, Astrology

8. Cheth .Equilibrium. Themis.

18. Tzaddi Magnetism. Light.

9. Teth. Wisdom. The Veiled  Lamp.

19. Soph. The Stone. Gold.

10. Yod. Key of Occultism, Virility.

20. Resh. Vegetables. Medicine.

21. Shin. Sensitive life. Animals.

0. Tau. The Microcosm. Pan.

Certain other cards of the Tarot Pack have also borne special Names:—The 3 of Coins was Osiris; the 3 of Cups, Isis; the

p. 19

[paragraph continues] 2 of Cups, Apis; the 9 of Coins, Hermes; the 1 of Wands, the Serpent, Apophis; the 1 of Coins, the Sun, Apollo.

It is necessary to see and study a set of the most ancient Tarots to appreciate the essentially Egyptian character of their symbolism.

The dogmas of the Sepher Yetzirah also form a perfect Tarot. The Three Mothers, which are:—1. Aleph, Air, the Firmament, the Holy Spirit. The Human Respiration, the Chest. 13. Mem, Water, the Earth, the Belly, the Womb. 21. Shin, Fire, the Heavens of Stars and Suns, the Brain, the Head. These are represented by the Centre of the Isiac Tablet. The seven doubles which correspond to the planets, and the median part of the Isiac Tablet:—2, Beth, Luna, Nature; 3, Ghimel, Mars, Force; 4, Daleth, Sun, Fertility; 11, Kaph, Venus, Generation; 17, Pe, Mercury, Wisdom; 20, Resh, Saturn, Peace; 22, or O, Tau, Jupiter, Beauty, and the Twelve Single, corresponding to the Zodiacal signs, and the Upper Region of the Isiac Tablet

5. He. Aries. Voice.

6. Vau. Taurus. Mind.

7. Zain. Gemini. Motion.

8. Cheth. Cancer. Sight.

9. Teth. Leo. Rearing.

10. Yod. Virgo. Work. Duty.

12. Lamed. Libra. Sexual desire.

14. Nun. Scorpio. Smell.

15. Samech. Sagittarius. Sleep.

16. Oin. Capricornus. Fury.

18. Tzaddi. Aquarius. Taste.

19. Soph. Pisces. Mirth.

I can strongly recommend a study of the Sepher Yetzirah, or Book of Formation, as one of the most ancient philosophic schemes of Theosophy known to us. It is far older than the Kabbalistic Zohar.

The Symbolism of the Tarot scheme is further continued into the 56 cards of the Four Suits: these suits are associated with many most important quaternaries: and first with the letters of the Sacred Name we call Jehovah or Yehveh, IHUH; next with four cherubic figures Lion, Man, Eagle and Bull; then to the Four Elementary States, Fire, Air, Water and Earth; further with the mystical letters of the inscription of the Cross, INRI; with the letters of the Hebrew word TORA the Law; with the occult significance of the ROTA or Wheel of the learned Postel: and lastly with sexual design and its emblems, Creator, Phallus, Masculine, Aaron's Rod; Great Mother, Yoni, Cteis, Female, Womb; thirdly with the Lingam, Conjunction, or with the Sun; and lastly Female, Circle, Shekel, Pantacle, Vesica Piscis, Image of the World, Malkuth, Kingdom.

Club or Wand,—I, Yod, Male, Phallus, Lion head, Fire. Mind.

Heart or Cup,—H, He, Female, Yoni, Human head, Air. Soul.

Spade or Sword,—U, Vau, Male, Lingam, Eagle head, Water. Spirit.

Diamond or Coin,—H. He, Female, Vesica Piscis, Bull head, Earth. Body.

The four suits are named in France, Trefles, Piques, Cœurs and Carreaux.

Then lastly the four sets of ten numeral cards, represent the Ten Sephiroth multiplied by the letters of the Tetragrammaton, or in the four Worlds of Aziluth, Briah, Yetzirah and Assiah: thus the four Aces become the fourfold Kether, the four Twos the fourfold Chocmah, and so on to the four Tens which typify Malkuth.

From a study of these analogies and correspondences, and the symbolic associations, it will be obvious how a system of Divination arose, because each card of the whole series of 78 had a meaning direct or symbolical; for example the 7 of Cups (hearts) would mean the Netzah of He or the Victory of the Woman, and the 3 of Clubs the Binah of Yod the Understanding of the Creator.

Another curious mystery may be casually mentioned here:—How comes it that some of the Court Cards are invariably drawn with the faces in profile and others of full front faces; the profile are the King of Diamonds or Coins the left, the Knave of Hearts, Cups the left, and the Knave of Spades Swords the right profile. Number 4 of the Tarots, the King, is a profile—we trench here upon one of the most hidden dogmas of the Kabbalah, for Macroprosopus is always designed as a Right Profile, while Microprosopus is drawn of full face, he is the Vau of the Tetragrammaton. The figure of the Hindoo Addha Nari is usually drawn holding in the two hands the four emblems of the Tarot pack, wand and cup in the right hand, sword and circle in the left—but enough of the Tarot.

In conclusion, I cannot refrain from quoting the words of Hermes Trismegistus, to be found in his Dialogue of Asclepios (see "Bath Occult Reprint"):—

"O Ægypte, Ægypte, religionum tuarum supererunt
 fabulæ, eæque incredibiles posteris tuis."
"O Egypt, Egypt, there will remain of thy religions,
only vague legends which posterity will refuse to believe."

Quod Scis, Nescis.